## Resource File

In this section we list many resources we think may be of
benefit to you. These include books worth reading, either for their value as a
reference or as food for thought. Following that list is a list of FoxPro 2.x
books to aid in your understanding of "legacy" code and techniques.
Included at the end is a list of other resources worth checking into.

> Note: Given this text was written in the early 2000's, some of these resources may no longer be available.

### Suggested Reading

Akins, Marcia, Andy Kramek and Rick Schummer, *1001 Things
You Wanted to Know About Visual FoxPro*, Hentzenwerke Publishing, 2000, ISBN
0-0655093-3-8. This volume picks up where the *Hacker's Guide* leaves off.
It answers all those "How do I" questions, like "How do I create
a splash screen?" or "How do I change the grid's display order?"
A must-have for serious VFP developers.

Alciere, Rose Mary, *Creating
Help for Windows™ Applications*, Wordware Publishing, Inc., 1995, ISBN
1-55622-448-6. A great introductory book on how Windows Help is made. Intended
primarily for Windows 3.1, it even includes a chapter specifically aimed at
making the Windows API function WinHelp() work with FoxPro for Windows 2.x! The
API functions and basics of WinHelp still apply, should you choose WinHelp over
HTML Help.

Brentnall, Savannah, *Object
Orientation in Visual FoxPro,* Addison-Wesley, 1996, ISBN 0-20147-943-5. An
excellent primer on the ideas of object-oriented programming and how they apply
to Visual FoxPro. Introduction by Ken Levy&mdash;we didn't know he could write
comments!

Booch, Grady, *Object
Oriented Analysis &amp; Design*, Benjamin Cummings, 1994, ISBN
0-8053-5340-2. One of the heavies of the industry on analysis and design
issues. When you're done playing with all the new cool things in VFP and it's
time to get back to work, here's one of the tomes to be studying.

Booth, Jim, and Steve Sawyer, *Effective Techniques for
Application Developmentwith Visual FoxPro 6.0*, Hentzenwerke Publishing,
1998, ISBN 0-0655093-7-0. We think of this as the third volume in the "VFP
How To" set. While the *Hacker's Guide* tells you how the language
works, and *1001 Things* shows you how to accomplish specific tasks, *Effective
Techniques* focuses on the bigger picture, looking at design issues and good
programming practices.

Cooper, Alan, *About
Face: The Essentials of User Interface Design*, IDG Books, 1995, ISBN
1-56884-322-4. This must-read book makes you think long and hard about how user
interfaces work&mdash;not just the ones you write, but the ones you use every day.
While you may not agree with everything Cooper suggests, you'll be forced to
question your assumptions. Best of all, Cooper is a great writer.

Cooper, Alan, *The Inmates are Running the Asylum*,
SAMS, 1999, ISBN 0-672-31649-8. Where *About Face* addresses user
interfaces on a granular level, this gem looks at the overall design process
and proposes a more rational way to design and implement user interfaces.

Egger, Markus, *Advanced Object Oriented Programming with
Visual FoxPro*, Hentzenwerke Publishing, 1999, ISBN 0-0655093-8-9. This book
covers so much ground, it's hard to believe it's only about 400 pages. It
includes clear explanations of OOP concepts, the best documentation anywhere
for the FoxPro Foundation Classes and the Component Gallery, an introduction to
the Unified Modeling Language, and much, much more.

Gamma, Erich, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson and John
Vlissides, *Design Patterns: Elements of
Reusable Object-Oriented Software,* Addison-Wesley, 1994, ISBN
0-20163-361-2. Often referred to as "The Gang of Four" or "Gamma
and Helm" for short, this is *the*
book that defined object design patterns and explained how to use them. Our
good friend Alan Schwartz advises that, in order to really *get it,* consider reading the core text (about 70 pages) four times.
The book contains a catalog of design patterns, explanation of their use,
benefits, liabilities and great discussion. Design patterns are not so much
"the latest thing" in programming, as much as they are a new
vocabulary we can use to express what we have been doing all along.

Granor, Tamar, Doug
Hennig and Kevin McNeish, *What's New in Visual FoxPro 7.0*, 2001, ISBN
1-930919-06-9. This is the first book
you want to read if you're moving from VFP 6 to VFP 7. It covers all the new
IDE, language and COM features in a compact format.

Granor, Tamar and Della Martin, *Microsoft Office
Automation with Visual FoxPro*, Hentzenwerke Publishing, 2000, ISBN
0-0655093-0-3. This is the only book out there that addresses automation of
Office from a VFP standpoint. 

Hentzen, Whil, *The Fundamentals: Building Visual Studio
Applications on a Visual FoxPro 6.0 Foundation*, Hentzenwerke Publishing,
1999, ISBN 0-0655093-5-4. The best starter book we know for new VFP developers
and for those moving from older Xbase tools to VFP.

Humphrey, Watts, *Managing
the Software Process,* Addison-Wesley, 1989, ISBN 0-201-18095-2. From one of
the key players in the Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon
University, this book (like most of his books) is worth a read. Watts and the
SEI are at the cutting edge of real software engineering.

Jacobson, Ivar, *Object-Oriented
Software Engineering*, Addison-Wesley, 1992, ISBN 0-201-54435-0. Some really
cool stuff here. In-depth examination of Jacobson's own Objectory system, with
good overviews of object-oriented analysis and design, and a comparison of
several methodologies out there.

Johnson, Jeff, *GUI Bloopers: Don'ts and Do's for Software
Developers and Web Designers*, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 2000, ISBN
1-55860-582-7. If Microsoft's user interface guideline documents are too dry
for your taste, spend some time with this book. While he doesn't address the
tiny details like how many pixels should separate controls, Johnson covers most
of the fundamental errors that we all make in creating user interfaces.

Kirtland, Mary, *Designing Component-Based Applications*,
Microsoft Press, 1999, ISBN 0-7356-0523-8. While all of the sample code in this
book (and there's tons of it!) is either in VB or C++, the author does a great
job explaining things like how COM works, what Windows DNA is, and what
responsibilities the various layers of an n-tier application have.

KNOWware, *HTML Help in
a Hurry™ Course Book,* available from KNOWware, (800) 566-9927, 1997. This
was the first book available for HTML Help, and the KNOWware team, led by HTML
Help MVP Mary Deaton, used the materials to teach Microsoft staff worldwide the
basics of HTML Help. The course book is very short (38 pages), but a good basic
start.

Maguire, Steve, *Debugging
the Development Process: Practical Strategies for Staying Focused, Hitting Ship
Dates, and Building Solid Teams,* Microsoft Press, 1994, ISBN 1-55615-650-2.
The other "Steve M" from Microsoft has some excellent observations on
the development process. Not only is this information applicable to our FoxPro
development, but many of the examples give us insight into just what they are
thinking at Microsoft.

McCarthy, Jim, and Denis Gilbert, *Dynamics of Software Development,* Microsoft Press, 1995, ISBN
1-55615-823-8. Another view inside Microsoft and another good volume on what is
involved in software development. 

McConnell, Steve, *Code
Complete*, Microsoft Press, 1993, ISBN 1-55615-484-4. Written before the era
of Visual FoxPro, this book nonetheless has tremendous relevance for those of
us who need to produce long-lasting, reliable and robust code. Steve explores
the art and craft of programming, reflecting on the philosophical implications
of many of the designs of coding. An awesome book.

McConnell, Steve, *Rapid
Development,* Microsoft Press, 1996, ISBN 1-55615-900-5. Excellent material
from a top-notch author on the trials and tribulations of software development.
Includes a number of case studies and lists of pitfalls to avoid.

McConnell, Steve, *Software
Project Survival Guide,* Microsoft Press, 1997, ISBN 1-57231-621-7. Steve
can't stop writing and we can't stop reading! Yet another great book, with
excellent supporting materials available on his Web site. A must read.

*Microsoft Windows ???
Resource Kit*, Microsoft Press&mdash;fill in the ??? yourself&mdash;"95,"
"98," "NT," "2000," etc., depending on your (and
your clients') particular flavor(s) of Windows. Invaluable books (sometimes in
more than one sense), these can be tremendous aids in troubleshooting problems
with the underlying Windows system. They typically include manuals and disks
with some handy utilities and reference materials. They are also available
online in the MSDN library at <a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/" target="_blank">http://msdn.microsoft.com</a>.

*MSDN-The Microsoft Developer's Network*&mdash;a series of CDs released monthly. What you get depends
on your level of participation. (Microsoft changes programs like these so often
it makes our heads spin, so we won't even speculate on how many levels there
are as you're reading this.) Regardless, you'll find a very large variety of
information and software, including all kinds of Software Development Kits
(SDKs), documentation for virtually any product you can think of, relevant
KnowledgeBase articles, sample code, and tons of software, including versions
of Windows, Office, VFP, etc., etc., etc. Having these disks is like carrying
around the Microsoft Web site with you&mdash;an excellent resource when you need
information fast, especially if you can't connect to the Web.

Norman, Donald, *The
Design of Everyday Things*, Doubleday, 1988, ISBN 0-385-26774-6. Formerly
published as the poorly selling *The
Psychology of Everyday Things*, this book is a self-fulfilling example of
the fact that books are judged by their covers and user interfaces by their
utility. Excellent examples and discussions about why some designs work and
others fail. Thought-provoking material for anyone who wants to write a system
that others can use.

Plauger, P.J., *Programming
on Purpose*,  PTR Prentice Hall,
1993, ISBN 0-13-721-374-3. Author of the popular column of the same name in *Computer Language*, Plauger revises and
expands some of his best columns into a wonderfully entertaining series of
essays on the whys and wherefores of analysis, design and software engineering.

Roche, Ted, *Essential SourceSafe*, Hentzenwerke
Publishing, 2001, ISBN 1-930919-05-0. The title says it all here. Ted's book
tells you what you need to know to use Visual SourceSafe effectively. 

Sessions, Roger, *COM
and DCOM: Microsoft's Vision for Distributed Objects,* Wiley Computer
Publishing, 1998, ISBN 0-471-19381-X. An excellent book to introduce the
concepts of distributed computing using Microsoft's latest technologies. The
author doesn't get bogged down in the details of Microsoft Transaction Server
or Message Queue, but rather explains the use of these technologies at an
understandable level.

Shneiderman, Ben, *Designing
the User Interface*, Addison-Wesley, 1998, ISBN 0-201-69497-2. Shneiderman
is one of the fathers of the science of Computer-Human Interaction. This book
is the third edition of what was originally written as a college text. Like the
original, it has plenty of advice, backed up with empirical research, on how to
organize user interfaces.

Stahl, Rick, *Internet Applications with Visual FoxPro*,
Hentzenwerke Publishing, 1999, ISBN 0-0655093-9-7. This book provides a great
introduction to using the Internet with VFP applications, with VFP on both the
client and server sides. 

Taylor, David, *Object
Oriented Technology: A Manager's Guide*, Servio-Addison-Wesley, ISBN
0-201-56358-4. OOP in 128 pages. An excellent overview of why anyone would want
to OOPify their code. A good primer, a good start as the first book in your
OOP-reading series, and a great book to hand to your boss when asked to justify
OOPification.

*TechNet*&mdash;Similar to
MSDN above, this is also a CD-based product available from Microsoft. TechNet
seems to be more focused on the support professional than the developer,
although we have found very good information on these discs as well. Published
monthly. If your primary interests include support, the need for new drivers,
and workarounds, this disc set can save you several hundred dollars as compared
to the cost of MSDN.

Tognazzini, Bruce, *TOG
on Interface*, Addison-Wesley, 1992, ISBN 0-201-60842-1. The man who made
the Macintosh user interface the shining example it is writes on the many
issues surrounding the human-computer interface in a fresh and engaging way. A
book that's hard to put down. Very useful knowledge for user interface
designers.

Tufte, Edward, *Visual
Explanations,* 1998, ISBN 0-961-39212-6, *Envisioning
Information*, 1990, ISBN 0-961-39211-8, and *The Visual Display of Quantitative Information*, 1983, ISBN
0-961-39214-2 &mdash;all from Graphics Press. Three of the most beautiful books we
own. While not specifically aimed at computer graphics, these books can give
you some great ideas about what makes a graph worth making, and common mistakes
made in graphical presentations and how to avoid them. Applicable both for
folks designing graphs and those designing graphical user interfaces.

Urwiler, Chuck, Gary DeWitt, Mike Levy and Leslie Koorhan, *Client-Server
Applications with Visual FoxPro and SQL Server*, Hentzenwerke Publishing,
2000, ISBN 1-930919-01-8. A must-read for anyone accessing SQL Server data from
VFP applications. It discusses upsizing VFP data to SQL Server, accessing data,
distributing database changes, and many other critical topics.

Wexler, Steve, *Official
Microsoft HTML Help Authoring Kit,* Microsoft Press, 1998, ISBN
1-57231-603-9. Steve Wexler is a principal in WexTech Systems, Inc., makers of
Doc-To-Help, and has been in the help business for quite some time. He writes
well and expresses the complexities of HTML Help in an understandable fashion.
Written between versions 1.0 and 1.2, there may be some items out of date, but
overall, you can pick up a lot from the book.

Winegarden, Cindy, and Evan Delay, *Visual FoxPro
Certification Exams Study Guide*, Hentzenwerke Publishing, 2001, ISBN
1-930919-04-2. This book (which Tamar edited) is the only study guide available
for the VFP certification exams. It's structured to take you through the
various exam goals. While this is not the book for learning VFP, it's a great
way to check out your higher-level knowledge.

Yourdan, Edward, *The
Decline and Fall of the American Programmer*, Yourdan Press (Prentice Hall),
1993, ISBN 0-13-191958-X. A sweeping survey of the entire software industry,
with some very intriguing observations and predictions. Worth the read for
anyone considering a career in the industry over the next few decades. Yourdan
has a follow-up book, *Rise and
Resurrection,* that we haven't gotten around to reading yet, so don't give
up hope!

### FoxPro 2.x Resources

In a number of places in the book, we refer to the "2.x
way of doing things" or the "Xbase way" and refer you here.
These are, in our opinions, some of the finest books written on those
languages, and serve as a great reference to understanding the many aspects of
the product which continue to be supported, unchanged, in the 3.x series, as
well as those which have undergone radical transformations. 

You'll find that most, if not all, of these books are now
out of print. If you need one of them, we suggest you visit one of the forums
(listed below) and post a message asking to buy someone's old copy. You can
also try Amazon.com and the other online bookstores to see if they have any
used copies to offer.

Adams, Pat, and Jordan Powell, *FoxPro Windows Advanced Multi-User Developer's Handbook*, Brady,
1994, ISBN 1-56686-100-4. The authority on multi-user issues, and the tuning
and configuration of workstations for optimal performance. Also includes the
enormous FPWeror.PRG, a great error-handler for 2.x systems. 

Griver, Y. Alan, *The
FoxPro 2.6 CodeBook*, Sybex, 1994, ISBN 0-7821-1551-9. We suspect more
applications out there are based on this framework than on any other. A simple,
straightforward but elegant solution to many of the problems of application
development posed by version 2.x.

Hawkins, John, *FoxPro
2.5 Programmer's Reference*, Que, 1993, ISBN 1-56529-210-3. An encyclopedia
of FoxPro 2.x commands, this book was (innovatively, we think) organized into
more than 40 chapters by separating the commands and functions into logical
groups. A great resource when you run into unfamiliar commands or unusual
needs.

Slater, Lisa, and Steven Arnott, *Using FoxPro 2.5 for Windows*, Que, 1993, ISBN 1-56529-002-X. When
we were asked for the best way to do something, we often found ourselves
reaching for this well-worn tome and invoking, "Well, Lisa says...".
(Sorry, Steve.) One of the best tutorials around, with remarkable depth as
well.

Slater, Lisa, with J. Randolph Brown, Andy Griebel and John R. Livingston, *FoxPro MAChete: Hacking
FoxPro*, Hayden Books, 1994, ISBN 1-56830-034-4. This book was our best
introduction to the world of the Mac. Three separate chapters introduce FoxPro
folk to the Mac, FoxBase/Mac people to FoxPro, and non-Fox, Mac users to
FoxPro. The rest of the book focuses on a rapid application development
approach that's appropriate for all versions of FoxPro 2.x and the Mac-specific
aspects of FoxPro 2.x.

### Other Resources

#### Magazines

All of the magazines below have very good material. The
focus of each magazine is a little different, and their editorial style changes
over time. We recommend you order a copy or two of each (or get them from the
newsstand) and choose the periodical that's right for you. (Just to come clean,
Tamar is a technical editor and columnist for *FoxPro Advisor*. Doug is a regular columnist in *FoxTalk*, and
our publisher, Whil Hentzen, is the editor.)

*CoDe*, published by EPS Software
Corporation, 13810 Champion Forest Dr., Houston, TX 77069. (281) 866-7444. <a href="http://www.code-magazine.com/" target="_blank">http://www.code-magazine.com</a>.

*FoxPro Advisor*,
published by Advisor Publications, Inc., 4010 Morena Blvd., P.O. Box 17902, San
Diego, CA, 92177. (800) 336-6060 in the U.S., (619) 483-6400. <a href="http://www.advisor.com/" target="_blank">http://www.advisor.com</a>.

*FoxTalk*, published
by Pinnacle Publishing, 1503 Johnson Ferry Rd. #100, Marietta, GA, 30062. (800)
788-1900, (770) 565-1763. <a href="http://www.pinnaclepublishing.com/ft" target="_blank">http://www.pinnaclepublishing.com/ft</a>.

#### Online Resources

CompuServe is far and away our favorite online service for
FoxPro technical support. This is no doubt due, at least in part, to the fact
that once Fox Software and later, Microsoft, provided their official online
presence here. Questions are answered both rapidly and accurately by peer
support as well, often in a matter of hours (sometimes even minutes). Hundreds
of files containing helpful hints, cool programming tricks, utilities and
work-arounds are available in the libraries on the forums. Forum messages are
archived and available for download. Best of all, forum access is available for
free from the Web (though we still prefer our offline readers): <a href="http://go.compuserve.com/msdevapps" target="_blank">http://go.compuserve.com\msdevapps</a>.

The most active FoxPro site is the Universal Thread: <a href="http://www.universalthread.com/" target="_blank">http://www.universalthread.com</a>. This
Web-based service features many of the forum basics: threading, private
messages, and so on. Basic membership is free, and provides access to the basic
features. Many people are attracted to the "Premier" memberships for
some of the more advanced features, such as enhanced searching, message
filtering and forwarding, display options, and more. Premier members also have
access to the UT's Web Service, which allows you to read messages
programmatically. At the time of this writing, the Web Service is read-only,
with no way to post new messages.

The official Microsoft site for VFP is <a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/vfoxpro" target="_blank">http://msdn.microsoft.com/vfoxpro</a>. Lots of
good links and information available nowhere else. Make sure to register your
purchase of Visual FoxPro in order to get access to the Owner's Area. 

Microsoft also has its hand in <a href="http://www.foxcentral.net/" target="_blank">http://www.foxcentral.net</a>, created and
maintained by Rick Strahl. This site is a clearinghouse for VFP news. It's also
available as a Web service, so you can talk to its data programmatically and
create your own front end, if you prefer.

Microsoft also operates newsgroups for VFP at
microsoft.public.fox.*. Additional newsgroups are found at
comp.database.xbase.fox. 

If you like listserves, check out the ProFox list. You can
sign up at <a href="http://www.leafe.com/mailListMaint.html" target="_blank">http://www.leafe.com/mailListMaint.html</a>.
There's a Web service available for this list, too.

One of the most innovative sites for VFP is the FoxPro Wiki,
which is a growing knowledge base: <a href="http://fox.wikis.com/" target="_blank">http://fox.wikis.com</a>.
It consists of thousands of articles written and edited by the members. If you
think something is wrong or could use more information, just edit the document
on the fly. Volunteers come along periodically to clean up, so that the site
maintains its document (rather than discussion-based) form. The Wiki is yet
another VFP Web site that has a corresponding Web service.

A search for "Visual FoxPro" turns up dozens, if
not hundreds, more sites, many of them maintained by VFP developers. Since the
speed of change on the Web is much faster than the speed of publishing, we
won't list any more. Instead, we recommend you spend some time looking for
sites that fit your needs.

#### User Groups, Conferences and Professional Associations

Ted has been involved with user groups for more than 10
years in the positions of founder, president, newsletter editor, bulletin board
system operator, master of ceremonies, and flunky, sometimes all at the same
time. The rest of us have been saner in our active participation, but all agree
that user groups are an excellent opportunity to meet people of similar
interests, seek support for vexing problems, share your knowledge, see some of
the new innovations, and make contacts that can lead to employment or
consulting contracts.

Finding a user group near you could make your life much
better. Searching the FoxPro Wiki for "usergroup" (no space) turns up
entries for a bunch of them. The Universal Thread has a User Group Meeting
Tracker, currently available through the Tools items in its main menu.
Microsoft also maintains a list through its Mindshare program (<a href="http://www.microsoft.com/mindshare" target="_blank">http://www.microsoft.com/mindshare</a>), but
this list often gets out of date.

Regardless of the lack of a single, consolidated list of
groups, the good news is that after dwindling for a while, the number of FoxPro
user groups has increased significantly in the past year, and we continue to
hear about new groups forming and old groups being reborn.

Professional conferences are one of our favorite ways to get
up to speed quickly. Despite the loss of billable hours as well as the costs of
travel, lodging and the conference admission, we are certain that we make money
by going to conferences. We meet potential clients, business partners (not to mention
co-authors), employee candidates, and resources that advance our careers, at
the same time as we learn from some of the most advanced members of our
community. Taking an hour-long session from one of the "gurus" can
save you weeks of painful trial-and-error research.

Several conferences take place each year. Microsoft has
continued the tradition started by Fox Software of an (almost) annual
Developer's Conference (we say *almost*
because October '93 saw us in Orlando; 15 months later, January '95 found us in
San Diego). The September '01 conference was the 12th FoxPro DevCon. Other
regional conferences have been very successful the last few years, particularly
the Great Lakes Great Database Workshop, hosted by none other than our esteemed
publisher (see <a href="http://www.hentzenwerke.com/" target="_blank">http://www.hentzenwerke.com</a>
for more information on this event&mdash;and we do mean event!). These more local
events can save a great deal of expense in terms of travel, lodging and
admission costs, with a somewhat more limited schedule of events and a smaller
speaker list.

ACM, the Association for Computer Machinery (yeah, we're not
machinery either, but we're members), is the granddaddy of professional
associations for computer folks. With both local chapters and a couple of dozen
special interest groups (known as "SIGs"), it has something for
everyone who's serious about computers. You can contact them at (800) 342-6626
or acmhelp@acm.org in the U.S. and Canada, 32-2-774-9602 or acm_europe@acm.org
in Europe. ACM also has a Web page at <a href="http://www.acm.org/" target="_blank">http://www.acm.org</a>.

### Third-party Products

The FoxPro world has a long history of free and inexpensive
tools. Where we once might have included many such items with the book, today
it makes much more sense for us to give a list of what's out there and let you
download only those items that interest you.

The tools themselves can be divided into a couple of
categories: utilities and frameworks. Generally, the utilities take one task
and do it very well. (Consider WinZip, for an example from outside the VFP
world.) 

Frameworks are larger and, for the most part, more expensive
products designed to provide all the basics any application could need, leaving
you to fill in only the part that makes your application unique. We won't list
all the VFP frameworks here, since that's a moving target. The best list we
know of is available on the FoxPro Wiki in the documented titled "VFP
Commercial Frameworks."

That leaves utilities&mdash;and boy, are there a ton of them. This
is probably a good place to own up and point out that Doug is the author and
co-owner of several widely used VFP utilities: Stonefield Database Toolkit,
Stonefield Reports and Stonefield Query. (You think the company's named
"Stonefield" or something?) Della works with Red Matrix Technologies
on the DataClas/VFP product, and for TakeNote Technologies, which provides the
FoxAudit program.

There are literally hundreds of third-party tools. The list
that follows is just a small sampling of those we've worked with. See the
section "Online Resources" for many places to find the myriad other
VFP tools that are available now and for those that have been published since
this book went to print. 

We've organized the list into loose categories. If no Web
site is listed, you should be able to download the tool from the libraries of
either the Universal Thread or the CompuServe MSDevApps forum.

#### Data Management

Stonefield Database Toolkit is a must-have tool that
simplifies many of the tasks involved with maintaining databases. The facility
for updating databases when their structure changes without losing data is
worth the price of the product. <a href="http://www.stonefield.com/" target="_blank">http://www.stonefield.com</a>.

eView, from Erik Moore, is a tool for maintaining views without
using the View Designer. It handles all the properties of the view and its
fields, as well as allowing you to edit the actual query on which the view is
based.

ViewEdit, from Steve Sawyer, is another tool for view
maintenance. This one lets you avoid the View Designer entirely, since you can
create new views as well as modify old ones. <a href="http://www.stephensawyer.com/" target="_blank">http://www.stephensawyer.com</a>.

FoxAudit, from Jim Duffy, provides complete audit trail
support to Visual FoxPro DBC-based applications. It adds complete, automatic,
client/server-like, audit trail support to the Visual FoxPro database
container. <a href="http://www.takenote.com/" target="_blank">http://www.takenote.com</a>.

#### Client-Server

DataClas/VFP, from Red Matrix Technologies, is a series of
Visual FoxPro classes for accessing and maintaining SQL Server data. It makes
developing VFP/SQL Server solutions fast and easy. <a href="http://www.redmatrix.com/" target="_blank">http://www.redmatrix.com</a>.

#### Querying and Reporting

GenRepoX, by Markus Egger, extends the capabilities of the
Report Designer by putting a wrapper around it. It lets you do such things as
creating multiple detail bands, sorting fields at runtime, and much more. <a href="http://www.eps-software.com/" target="_blank">http://www.eps-software.com</a>.

FoxFire!, from MicroMega Systems, is a report writer
(written in VFP) to replace the built-in Report Designer. It's intended for use
both by developers and end-users. <a href="http://www.micromegasystems.com/" target="_blank">http://www.micromegasystems.com</a>.

FRX2Word, converts VFP reports to Word documents. Originally
written by John Koziol, it's now maintained by Fabio Vieira, of Storm Software
in Brazil (<a href="mailto:fabio.storm@uol.com.br">fabio.storm@uol.com.br</a>).

#### Web Development

Rick Strahl offers a wide variety of tools, some free and
others for sale, that simplify Web development with VFP. His premier product,
Web Connection, is a Web development framework. Other tools include wwIPStuff,
an interface for working with various Internet protocols, and wwXML, a class
for working with XML. <a href="http://www.west-wind.com/" target="_blank">http://www.west-wind.com</a>.

Active FoxPro Pages, from ProLib Technologies, offers
another approach to Web development with VFP. <a href="http://www.active-foxpro-pages.com/" target="_blank">www.active-foxpro-pages.com</a> (for
information and European distribution), <a href="http://www.afpweb.com/" target="_blank">http://www.afpweb.com</a>
(for U.S. distribution).

#### Extending VFP

Struct, from Christof Lange, makes it easier to use API
functions that expect structures as parameters. Struct puts an object face on
structures and lets you worry only about the data involved. 

#### Other Utilities

HTML Help Builder, also written by Rick Strahl, is the
fastest and simplest way to create CHM files. We didn't use it to create HackFox.CHM
because we started with Word documents, but it's an indispensable part of our
toolboxes for any other help file creation. <a href="http://www.west-wind.com/" target="_blank">http://www.west-wind.com</a>.

Project Search, by Steven Dingle. This cool utility searches
all the files in a project for a text string. It doesn't just search procedures
and methods&mdash;it checks properties, too. <a href="http://www.stevendingle.com/" target="_blank">http://www.stevendingle.com</a>.