## What's in the Downloads?

>What vast additions to the conveniences and comforts of living might mankind have acquired, if the money spent in wars had been employed in works of public utility;   
>&mdash;Benjamin Franklin, 1783

With this edition of the *Hacker's Guide*, we've
accepted that the Internet is for real and included fewer items in the
downloads than in previous versions. Our thinking is that most of you don't
want to download a ton of stuff you're never going to use in order to get the
one or two items you *do* want. Instead, in the "Resource File"
section, we've given some idea of what's out there and where to get it. The
actual download is left as an exercise to the reader.

Please do note that the example code from this book is
copyrighted, so if you use any of it in your applications, you need to properly
credit it. (That's as simple as leaving intact the copyright notices.)

### It's da Book

From our perspective, the most valuable item available for
download is the book itself. While that was certainly true for the VFP 6
edition, it's ever so much more so now. In the VFP 7 edition of the book, we've
chosen not to kill trees to print what we estimate would be about 1,000 pages
of the Reference section. It's available only as part of the HTML Help version
of the book. (For more information on working with that version, see ["How
to Use This Help File"](..\section0\s0c9.html) in "Front of the Book.")

At various places in this book, we've mentioned a routine or
a form being in the downloads. These items are divided into two categories:
demos and utilities. On the whole the utilities are built better than the
demos, since they are made to work in real-life conditions. The demos are more
fragile and less robust, usually built just to demonstrate a particular code
fragment. 

#### Demo Code

For the most part, these are samples provided to make it
easier to test a particular class or to understand how something works. If you
want to incorporate demo code into an application, you'll probably want to add
bulletproofing. Nearly all of these are taken directly out of the book. If
there are other examples you want to test out, find that section in the
included HTML Help and copy the text into the FoxPro editor.

<a href="..\downloads\Demos\ascchr.prg" download="download">AscChr.PRG</a>&mdash;a form class in code that displays an ASCII chart
and lets you set the font. Too slow to use in an application. 

Coupon.PRG&mdash;run the coupon collector's test for randomness.

DragDropSample.SCX&mdash;a form to demonstrate OLE drag and drop.

Dragger.SCX&mdash;a form to demonstrate the various native
drag-and-drop features of VFP.

Forms.VCX&mdash;a form class for demo forms. (Used for
DragDropSample.SCX.)

NewFoxCode.DBF&mdash;an IntelliSense script. See NewFoxCode.TXT
for instructions on installing it.

PeekFKY.PRG&mdash;demonstration of reading a macro file with
low-level file functions.

RandTest.PRG&mdash;run the Chi-Squared test for randomness.

Resize.PRG&mdash;a simple demonstration of how a form's contents
can be made to sensibly resize.

TestCat.SCX, CallCat.Prg&mdash;a form and a program to call it to
demonstrate the CatMover class in CoolStuf.VCX. These use ITEMS.DBF and
CATEGORY.DBF from the sample database provided with VFP.

TestDate.SCX&mdash;a form to demonstrate the DateSpin class in
CoolStuf.VCX

TestDraw.SCX&mdash;a form to experiment with the interaction of
DrawMode, FillStyle and their friends.

TestFont.SCX&mdash;a form to let you see the various fonts installed
on your system. (Use `GETFONT()` in an app.)

Thrmdemo.SCX&mdash;a demonstration of the Thrmomtr class below.

#### Utility Code

These are routines or classes you can use in your apps. 

AColCopy.PRG&mdash;copies one or more columns of an array.

AColScan.PRG&mdash;searches for an item in a particular column of
an array. No longer needed in VFP 7, but handy in older versions.

AIndexes.PRG&mdash;fills an array with information about all
indexes of a table. Superseded by `ATAGINFO()` in VFP 7 (we like to think we know
where they got the idea), but useful for older versions. 

AProgram.PRG&mdash;fills an array with the program calling chain.
Another one you don't need anymore in VFP 7 (where `ASTACKINFO()` does this), but
may want to use in previous versions.

ARelns.PRG&mdash;fills an array with information about all
relations in which a table is the parent.

Connect.VCX&mdash;a Connection Manager class. See Connect.Txt for
details.

CoolStuf.VCX&mdash;contains several input tools. See CoolStuf.Txt
for details.

DiffDate.PRG&mdash;returns the difference in days between two dates.

DispFkey.PRG&mdash;displays a list of available function keys.

MakeMArr.PRG&mdash;fills an array with the names of all the system
menu items.

ParsColr.PRG&mdash;lets the user choose a color, and then parses
it into red, green and blue. This code uses VFP 7's ability to return an array
from a method. For the same functionality in earlier versions, use the RGBComp
function in FoxTools.

ParsFont.PRG&mdash;lets the user choose a font, and then parses it
into name, size and style.

ShowMe.PRG&mdash;displays the type and value of nearly anything
in a wait window.

Thrmomtr.VCX&mdash;a thermometer control and its component parts. See Thrmomtr.Txt

#### Help File

As we said in "How to Use this Book," the reaction
to the HTML Help version of the *Hacker's Guide* was tremendous, so much
so that we now view it as the primary version of this book. So, the most
important thing you can download is the HTML Help version of this book.

That version differs from the printed version in a number of
ways. Most importantly, we've chosen to publish the Reference section of the
book only in the electronic version. In addition, this section in the HTML Help
version contains a complete list of all the files available for download. (That
gave us the opportunity to keep adding things until the last possible moment.)

The downloads also include a file called ViewHlp.CHM, which
is the Help file for HTML Help. (You'll also find some clues to working with
HTML Help in "How to Use this Help File.")

Finally, the downloads include an assortment of sample code.
For the complete list, see this chapter in the HTML Help version.