## Foreword to the Second Edition

I was thrilled that Tamar and Ted decided to update their *Hacker's Guide* for Visual FoxPro 6.0.
The easily understandable style of the *Guide*
will help Fox developers come up to speed quickly on the wonderful new features
in VFP 6. I continue to enjoy the way they examine each and every feature, even
the potential "gotchas".

An innovation of the 6.0 Guide is the HTML Help version that
comes on CD. You'll have all the fabulous content of the *Hacker's Guide* in the easily searchable Table of Contents and Index
of HTML Help. I appreciate the fact that I can still sit in my comfortable easy
chair and read straight through the book, and yet I have the *Guide's* valuable information at my
fingertips when I'm using VFP at my desk.

Tamar and Ted, thanks again for sharing your knowledge with
the Fox community. 

Susan Graham  
Former Visual FoxPro Program Manager  
Microsoft Developer Division

## Foreword to the First Edition 

When I first learned that Tamar and Ted were planning to
"take the plunge" and write a Visual FoxPro book, I couldn't have
been more pleased. Tamar's ability to explain complex concepts is well known,
as is Ted's depth of knowledge about many aspects of the product.

*In The Hacker's Guide
to Visual FoxPro for Windows* Tamar and Ted make the learning curve much
flatter for novice users of Visual FoxPro, as well as for those who are already
fairly comfortable with the product. They discuss concepts new to the Xbase
developer (such as Object Oriented Programming), as well as old concepts with
new guise (no more READs!). They also present a great deal of information in
their reference component, which is the heart of the book. However, my favorite
section is "Franz and Other Lists" - a collection of lists containing
information one can never seem to find in the Help file (it's usually there,
but it can be hard to find). And don't miss the section on Frequently Asked
Questions. 

As in the articles they've written and in the talks they've
given, Tamar and Ted provide technical information, strategies and source code
on a Companion Disk. They provide clear and concise explanations of complex
subjects such as SQL, the new event model and parameterized views. I especially
appreciate the real-life examples of why to use a feature in a particular way.
It truly aids in understanding.

Even though the content of this book is basically technical,
the style of this *Hacker's Guide* is
informal, quite amusing, and is a particularly easy read. How many of you get
the reference in the title *Controls and KAOS?*

It has been my pleasure to work with Tamar and Ted on the
many FoxPro beta cycles I've managed over the past few years. (Nobody has read
our Help File and docs as thoroughly as Tamar has!) Their insights and opinions
have helped us improve each of our products, and this perspective is
demonstrated to great advantage in the *Hacker's
Guide.* This book will be a valuable resource to Visual FoxPro users.

Susan Graham  
Visual FoxPro Program Manager  
Microsoft Developer Division 