## Who Needs This Book?

We love Visual FoxPro. We'd rather use it to develop
applications than any other product we've ever worked with.

But (isn't there always a "but"?) Visual FoxPro
isn't perfect. Some parts of the language don't work as they should. Others do
what they're supposed to, but we can't imagine why anyone thinks you'd want to
do that. And some pieces do exactly what they're supposed to and it's a good
thing to do, but it's hard as heck to understand. We should add that the Visual
FoxPro documentation is good&mdash;in fact, it gets better with each new version&mdash;but
there are still too many places where it's incorrect, incomplete, or sometimes
a bit incomprehensible.

Enter this book. This is the book for the times when you've
done just as the manual shows, but it still doesn't work and you're running out
of hair to pull out. It's for those days when you think you've found a command
that does what you need, but you can't make any sense of what Help has to say
about it. We'll tell you how it really works or why you shouldn't do it the way
the manual shows&mdash;or tell you that it doesn't work at all, and show you how to
do it another way.

### What This Book Is Not

This is an "intermediate-level" book. This book is
not a replacement for the online Help or the Language Reference manual. It's a
supplement. If something works the way it's documented, we won't repeat all the
gory details. Instead, we summarize that and add anything the manual doesn't
tell you.

On the other hand, if a command or function or property or
event or method doesn't work as documented or if the documentation doesn't make
sense, we dig down and explain it in detail. And, of course, in those cases, we
still tell you the stuff the manual doesn't say.

This book is not the way to begin learning Visual FoxPro.
Other books out there, including Whil Hentzen's book in this series, *The
Fundamentals*, are designed to teach you Visual FoxPro. If you're new to
Visual FoxPro, get one of those books and work your way through it. Then get
this book to help you move on.

This book is not a guide to the Visual FoxPro IDE. While we
do talk about the tools and even provide some tips and tricks on that front,
this book really focuses on the programming language itself. 

This book is not an advanced application framework. There
are several good commercial frameworks available that will provide you with all
the code you need to start plugging your information into their systems and
getting working apps out the other end. In fact, Visual FoxPro (beginning with
version 6) even comes with a decent framework you can use right away. We like
and work with several of the frameworks, and we do not intend to duplicate
their work here. Instead, we try to provide an advanced reference when you need
to step outside the framework's box, or need to troubleshoot something the
framework isn't doing right. You may also use this book to develop your own
framework, but that exercise, as our professors loved to say, is left to the
student.

We assume you're already familiar with the basics of Visual
FoxPro, that you know how to use the Power Tools, and that you've spent some
time with the product. Although we cover some introductory material, it's not
at the level you'd want if you're a beginner.

### So Who Does Need This Book?

Immodestly, we say anyone who's serious about working in
Visual FoxPro needs this book at his or her side. Once you've gotten past the
"Help, I don't know where to begin" stage and spent some time working
with Visual FoxPro, you're ready. As soon as you've spent a long day and a sleepless
night fighting one of the less-than-intuitive behaviors or trying to make
something work that just plain doesn't, you're probably well past ready.

In putting together this book, we've learned a tremendous
amount about what's going on under the hood. Despite having learned most of it
the hard way, we all use the book (in particular, the HTML Help version) every
working day. We're looking forward to having this new edition on our desktops
to replace the VFP 6 version. If a file could be dog-eared, that one would be.

### Hacking the Hacker's Guide

In any book of this size, there are bound to be mistakes,
omissions, or places we just missed the mark. If you think you've caught us on
one of these, drop us an email (via <a href="mailto:books@hentzenwerke.com">books@hentzenwerke.com</a>)
and we'll check it out for the next edition. Check the Hentzenwerke Web site
regularly for updates and corrections. To make that easier for you, in the HTML
Help version you'll find a button at the end of every topic that'll navigate
right to updates for that topic, if there are any.

While we do love tracking down FoxPro problems, we're all
too busy to do it on a one-to-one basis except for our clients and closest
friends. So, if you need help with a particularly complex problem or general
advice about how to proceed, please take advantage of one or more of the
wonderful online resources for VFP. There's a list of them in "Back o' da
Book." (Of course, if that doesn't help, we're always interested in new
consulting opportunities.)

>For what appears truth to the one may appear to be error to the other.  
>&mdash;Mahatma Gandhi, 1922

Tamar E. Granor  
Elkins Park, Pennsylvania

Ted Roche  
Contoocook, New Hampshire

Doug Hennig  
Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada

Della Martin  
Cary, North Carolina