## DBF, FPT, CDX, DBC&mdash;Hike!

>Let's look at the record.  
>&mdash;Alfred E. Smith, 1928

The transition from the FoxPro 2.x model of the universe to
the Visual FoxPro mindset was pretty revolutionary on a lot of fronts. While we
cringe to use the hackneyed and overused term, the introduction of databases in
Visual FoxPro was a major paradigm shift and one that took some getting used
to. The introduction of the database container, local and remote views, vast
improvements in client-server connectivity, and a slew of new data types,
commands, and functions was mind-boggling. We'll try to give you an overview of
the data changes here, and refer you to areas where you can get more
information throughout the book.

If you're coming from an Xbase background, you might think
you're encountering some NewSpeak in Visual FoxPro, but it's all for a good
cause. Individual DBF files used to be referred to as "databases" but
now, a better term, that used by Visual FoxPro, is to call individual DBF files
"tables" and the new DBC a "database container" or just
"database" for short. While it's frustrating to try to change
terminology you've been using for years, we've found it does lead to greater
understanding of the new scheme of Visual FoxPro. Not only that, but the new
names bring us in line with the rest of the relational database world.

### The Database Container

A database container (DBC file) is a Visual FoxPro table
that links together the tables, indexes, views and special code associated with
your data. When a table is added to a database, many new features become
available. You can define code to validate individual fields or entire records
before they are saved, each with its own individual error message. A default
value and caption can be specified for each field. 

Database containers also allow you to specify *persistent relations*, saving hours of
tedium in system development. These relations form the basis for enforcement of
relational integrity (RI) at the database level, through the use of stored
procedures and record-level triggers. In addition to RI enforcement, our own
program code can be triggered on the insertion of a new record, the updating of
an existing record, or the deletion of a record. Program code can also run at
the field level, specifying default values, validation rules and error
messages. Individual fields can have default captions and control classes
assigned to them.

All of these features are controlled by the database engine
itself, with no need for the developer to write supporting code. Even cooler,
all of these features are available when directly editing the table, like in a
Browse. This offers far greater reliability and integrity for the data we use.

### Better Tables 

Cool new features were added to the DBF table, too. A table
can be "free," not associated with a particular database, or it can
be "contained" within a DBC. This "containership" is not
the same as, say, Access's monolithic MDB files&mdash;no data from the tables is
actually stored within the DBC, just links to the tables, views and other
elements. This structure is like the Project Manager, which holds references to
source documents but not the documents themselves. 

Whether free or contained, tables gained new features:
several new field types, the capability to store NULL values within fields, and
the ability to flag character or binary data in fields not to be translated
between different language versions of Visual FoxPro.

### The Database Container

Xbase programmers had gotten into a rut. In every
application, in every screen, in every routine, they had to code the same
functionality. "Customer.DBF is related to Orders.DBF by the Cust_ID
field." "Customer mailing address state needs to be validated against
the States.DBF table." "Every time a record is added to the AR table,
run the routine to post an audit trail record." If the developer forgot
one of these rules in just one place in an application, the consistency of the
data was in jeopardy and a long, arduous troubleshooting session was sure to
result. To compound the error, it was possible that these rules were in place
in all programs, but a database change made interactively by a programmer or
user could still be responsible for bad data. What a headache!

Visual FoxPro's competition, the Relational DataBase
Management Systems (RDBMSs) and Client-Server systems, developed solutions to
these problems. RDBMSs made leaps and bounds in functionality, while the basic
data model of Xbase hadn't changed since the development of dBASE. With the
release of Visual FoxPro, Microsoft determined it was time for an improvement
in the basic model. Visual FoxPro introduced some new terminology and some
incredible power in the form of the new DBC databases. As we mentioned above,
we used to call each individual DBF file a database, but this terminology is
not really consistent with most other database management systems. Besides,
those folks with their poky-slow RDBMSs would sneer at us: "That's not a
real database&mdash;where are the persistent relations? Relational Integrity?
Security? Triggers? Stored Procedures?"

It's in there.

Visual FoxPro databases contain and support:

* Tables&mdash;DBF files specially marked for use only within a database.

* Long, long, long table and field names (128 characters!).

* Field-level validation functions, default values, error message text and comments.

* Record-level validation. 

* Separate trigger functions for insert, update and delete.

* Primary and candidate keys.

* Persistent relationships&mdash;define a relation once and it is preserved.

* Local views&mdash;updateable cursors spanning multiple tables.

* Remote views&mdash;easy access to data stored within other DBMSs.

* Stored procedures&mdash;common method code accessible from all procedures within the DBC.

* Database events&mdash;events that fire when something is done to the structure of the database or to one of its contained members.
Tables added to a DBC can have long names associated with
the table itself and its constituent fields. These names are stored in the DBC.

Triggers and stored procedures are Visual FoxPro code
fragments that run automatically when their associated event occurs. Field-level
procedures fire when a field is modified. Record-level procedures fire when an
attempt is made to commit a new record to a file, update an existing record, or
delete a record from a table.

Primary and candidate keys both uniquely distinguish a record
from all others. Indexes designated as either of these don't accept duplicate
values, but instead generate an error message. 

Persistent relationships can be defined once within the DBC,
and are then available throughout the system. When tables engaged in a
persistent relationship are brought into the data environment of a form or
report, the relationship is brought with them. While the relationship can be
modified in each place it exists, if the most common relationship is defined
within the DBC, far less work is needed in each subsidiary form and report to
put a system together.

After creating tables and their relationships within the
DBC, run the Relational Integrity Builder by issuing the command `Modify
Database` and then choosing Edit Referential Integrity from the Database menu or
the context menu. The Relational Integrity Builder appears. When you are done
and choose OK, the builder regenerates the RI stored procedures needed to
ensure relational integrity in the database.

Views are cursors on warp speed. A view is defined like a
`SQL SELECT`, allowing you to join multiple tables (and use their persistent
relations, if set), select the output fields, and order and group records just
like a `SELECT`. But views are really cool because they can be updateable, so
changes made to the records in the resulting cursor can be "written
through" onto the tables. This has fantastic implications for manipulating
and updating data. 

Remote views have all the coolness of the local views just
mentioned, with a simple but profound variation&mdash;the data is not Visual FoxPro
data. Using ODBC, the Connection Designer, and the View Designer, Visual FoxPro
has become, in one fell swoop, one of the most powerful clients in a
client-server relationship. Even cooler, because both local and remote views
can be defined, a Visual FoxPro client-server system can be designed,
prototyped and tested on local data stores, and converted to remote data
storage when ready to go into production. This is a big attraction to
developers who want to work on client-server systems on their client site, but
don't want or need to set up servers in their own offices. For more information
on using client-server architectures, see ["Your Server Will Be With You in a Moment."](s1c8.md)

Had enough views yet? There's one more variation on the
theme: offline views. An offline view is defined as any other, but it allows an
operator to actually "check out" a set of records, make changes, and
then re-synchronize with the original source. This is a cool feature for
"road warriors," anyone who needs to disconnect from the main
network, go on the road, do some work, and then reconnect and update the main
files.

Database events, added in VFP 7, let you control the
structure of a database the way rules and triggers let you control the content.
Although they're not turned on by default, once you turn them on for a
particular DBC, VFP fires events whenever you perform pretty much any action on
the database container or the tables, views, relations and connections it
contains. For example, when you create a table, the `BeforeCreateTable` and
`AfterCreateTable` events fire. When you remove a view, the `BeforeDropView` and
`AfterDropView` events fire. By putting code into the procedures called by these
events (named "DBC_" followed by the event name, such as
"DBC_BeforeCreateTable"), you can perform additional actions when
these events occur. For example, you could update an audit log whenever a
table's structure is modified, or update a security log whenever a user opens a
view or table. Even better is the ability to disallow the action by returning
.F. in the "before" event. This allows you to do things such as
preventing unauthorized users from opening the payroll table and seeing who
makes how much money (or worse, changing salaries) or from making changes to
stored procedures. See "Mr. Database Event, You're Fired!" later in
this section for some ideas of things you can do with database events.

Stored procedures allow programming code for the triggers,
rules and database events, as well as any other associated code, to be stored
within the DBC. For example, the Referential Integrity Builder's code for
performing cascaded updates or deletes is placed in the stored procedures area.
This is also where you can place code that otherwise might be a "calculated
field," an item wisely not supported within the data model, or a UDF. For
example, the routine to format a postal code based on the country is a routine
you might include within your main DBC to produce the effect of a calculated
field on your customer table. Rather than requesting Customer.PostalCode, you
could specify `CustPostCode(Customer.PostalCode)` and get the built-in code to do
the work. This has advantages over a stand-alone UDF because it's always
available when the data is. The downside is that this code is only available
for the current `SET DATABASE` database, so stored procedures are not a
replacement for stand-alone or procedure libraries. They are, however, still a
great place to store database-specific code.

One issue to be aware of with stored procedures is that,
while VFP does a great job of locating them, it doesn't make the database
containing the procedure the current one. (For example, if the DefaultValue
property of a field in a table belonging to a database that isn't the current
one calls a stored procedure in that database, VFP will run the proper stored
procedure, even if a procedure with the same name exists in the current
database.) That is, `DBC()` returns the name of the current database, which isn't
necessarily the one the procedure is in. This may have implications for your
code. For example, say a stored procedure called from the DefaultValue property
for a primary key field in a table opens the NEXTID table, which contains the
next available primary key to use. If that table doesn't exist in the currently
selected database, the `USE` command will fail. The solution is to either
specifically `SET DATABASE` to the desired database in the stored procedure (be
sure to `SET DATABASE` back to the previously selected one at the end of the
procedure) or to include the database name in the `USE` command (`USE
MYDATABASE!NEXTID`).

### Compatibility&mdash;The Good, the Bad and the Ugly

>Consistency is the last refuge of the unimaginative.  
>&mdash;Oscar Wilde

The best&mdash;and the worst&mdash;feature of Xbase is the cross-compatibility
(sometimes) of the basic file structures. It's great news if you're trying to
tie together an analysis piece in a spreadsheet with a data-entry product
written in a front-end language and output via a third-party reporting tool,
but it's hell when you're trying to hide the payroll figures.

Cross-compatibility has allowed the development of
"clone" products, which perform many of the functions of the
original, but either extend the functionality or improve the performance. (Fox
was originally an example of both&mdash;see ["It's Always Been That Way"](s1c1.md)).
In addition, this compatibility allowed the development of a third-party
marketplace where add-on products&mdash;database repair tools, viewers and
translators&mdash;could flourish.

The flip side of compatibility is that, like the cop when
someone else is speeding, it's never there when you need it. DBFs created by
one product (such as FoxPro 2.x) might not be readable in another (FoxBASE+)
because of enhancements to the language, and backward (but not forward) compatibility.
VFP 7 continues this trend: If you turn on database events for a database, that
database and its tables are no longer accessible in earlier versions of VFP or
in the VFP ODBC driver (they are accessible with the VFP OLE DB provider,
however). Fortunately, you can turn database events back off again, making them
accessible once more, so it's not a drastic one-time-only thing.

We will not repeat the file extensions table, found under "File Extensions and File Types" in Help. However, we do recommend you use the Help and a good introductory FoxPro book to review the formats of PJX/PJT projects, SCX/SCT screens, FRX/FRT reports, and LBX/LBT labels.

There are a few file extensions and structures you might not
see described elsewhere, but you should be aware of them. If you are called
upon to examine (or exhume) applications written in another Xbase language, you
might see and need to examine these files:

<table>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p><b>Extension</b></p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p><b>Purpose</b></p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>BAK</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Backup files&mdash;sometimes DBFs, sometimes something else.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>DBT</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>dBASE III (and later) memo files.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>NDX, IDX</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Clipper or FoxBASE/FoxPro stand-alone indexes, compact or non-compact.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>MDX</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>dBASE IV compound indexes.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>NTX, NDX</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Clipper and dBASE indexes, respectively.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
</table>

### A Rose by Any Other Name

You might think a DBF is a DBF, but alas, this is not so.
Tables created with older products, such as FoxBASE and dBASE III, have the DBF
extension, but may not be fully compatible with Visual FoxPro. Visual FoxPro
DBFs cannot be read with these products, either. The first clue you may get is
an error when attempting to USE a table. FoxPro determines this by reading the
first byte in the DBF file (see the `SYS(2029)` function). If the byte is wrong,
the dreaded "Not a table" message appears.

Visual FoxPro continues the tradition of
backward-compatibility, since it can read DBF files created with earlier
products. However, in order to facilitate linking with DBC database containers,
Visual FoxPro 3.0 introduced changes to the DBF header structure that make
Visual FoxPro DBFs unreadable with earlier products. If you need to
"regress" a Visual FoxPro table to an earlier format, you can use the
`TYPE FOX2X` keywords with the `COPY TO` command.

<table>
<tr>
  <td width="**%" colspan="2" valign="top">
  <p align="center"><b>Header Structure, bytes 0 &ndash; 31</b></p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p><b>Location</b></p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p><b>Meaning</b></p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>0</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>DBF Type, reported by SYS(2029).</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>1, 2, 3</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Date last updated as YY, MM, DD. See LUPDATE(). Yes, astute reader, this is a Y2K problem, but was resolved in VFP 6.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>4, 5, 6, 7</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Number of records, returned by RECCOUNT().</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>8, 9</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Location of first data record, also HEADER().</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>10, 11</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Record length, returned by RECSIZE().</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>12 &ndash; 27</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Unused.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>28</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Bit 0: Is there a structural CDX?<br> Bit 1: Is there an associated memo file?<br> Bit 2: Is this file used as a DBC?</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>29</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Code page signature. See CPZero.PRG for translation of these values to code page values.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>30, 31</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Unused.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
  <td width="**%" colspan="2" valign="top">
  <p align="center"><b>Field Records: one for each field in the table, each 32 bytes long</b></p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p><b>Offset</b></p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p><b>Meaning</b></p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>0 &ndash; 10</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Field name, padded with CHR(0).</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>11</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Field type, same values as TYPE().</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>12, 13, 14, 15</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Starting location of field within record.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>16</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Length of the field (binary), like FSIZE().</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>17</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Decimal length, if applicable.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>18</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Field-level flags:</p>
  <p>Bit 0: Is this a &quot;system&quot; (hidden) field?<br> Bit 1: Is this field nullable?<br> Bit 2: Is this field NOCPTRANS?</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>19 &ndash; 31</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Unused.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
</table>

 <table> <tr> <td width="**%" colspan="2" valign="top"> <p align="center"><b>End of table header</b></p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>CHR(13)</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>Terminating character to indicate end of field information.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="32%" valign="top">
  <p>263 bytes</p>
  </td>
  <td width="68%" valign="top">
  <p>&quot;Backlink&quot; containing the path and filename of the database container that owns this table. CHR(0) if a free table.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
</table>

The tables above show the internal structure of a Visual
FoxPro table. Several VFP traits are of key interest. Byte 0, the so-called "signature
byte," is always 48 (hexadecimal 0x30) for Visual FoxPro tables. Byte 28
was used in earlier FoxPro versions to designate that a CDX file was used by
storing a `CHR(01)` in that location. This has been expanded in VFP to include
whether a memo file is used for memo or general field information and also
whether the table is a database container. This is accomplished by adding 2 for
memo fields and 4 for DBCs. A similar pattern of "bit flags" occurs
for each field record stored in the header. Byte 18 of each field record
contains three bit flags: Bit 0 indicates whether the field is displayed or is
a hidden ("system") field; bit 1 flags whether the field can store
null values; and bit 2 determines whether the field is translated to the current
code page or treated as binary data.

### Nulls

>What is man in nature? Nothing in relation to the infinite, everything in relation to nothing, a mean between nothing and everything.  
>&mdash;Blaise Pascal, *Pensées*, 1670

How many answers can there be to a simple question? How about
three? "Yes," "No," and "I Don't Know." For
years, Xbase had no good way to store the "I Don't Know" answer for
many fields. Logical fields were restricted to .T. and .F. A character field
left empty was indistinguishable from one for which the value was unknown.
Numeric values were treated as zeroes if they were not filled in.

So what, you ask? Who needs them? Consider this case: You
ask 10 septuagenarians their age. Eight answer: 72, 78, 73, 76, 70, 79, 72, 74.
Two refuse to answer. You plug your eight answers into a field named AGE and
issue the command `CALCULATE AVG(AGE)` for the 10 people. What's your answer?
59.4. Now, who's going to believe that? If, instead, you `REPLACE AGE WITH
.NULL.` for the two people who refused to answer, your average is a far more
believable 74.25. Nulls are very useful in many statistical calculations.

Nulls can be used in any field designated as nullable.
Fields can be made nullable by checking the box at the right edge of the field
description within the Table Designer, or by using the `NULL` keyword in `CREATE
TABLE` or `ALTER TABLE`. Fields in remote views from server systems can be defined
as nullable by their DBMS server, and this carries over into the view.

Understanding how nulls work within calculations is
important. If any of the fields or memory variables within your system is
allowed to take on the null value, you must anticipate how this value can
affect calculations, functions and processing within your application. The
`ISNULL()` function can be used to test for the presence of a null value, and the
`NVL()` function can substitute another value (such as zero or a blank) for a
value found to be .NULL. Why can't we just test a variable to see if it is
equal to .NULL.? This gets back to the concept at the beginning of this section:
.NULL. means "I don't know." What's the value of a mathematical
expression involving .NULL.? I don't know&mdash;.NULL. One half of .NULL.? I don't
know&mdash;.NULL. Is .NULL. equal to .NULL.? I don't know&mdash;.NULL. The first three
characters of .NULL.? I don't know&mdash;.NULL.

Null values "propagate" through functions&mdash;if any
value is not known, the result can't be known. We can't test an unknown value
against another value (even another unknown) and know if they're equal. Hence
the need for an `ISNULL()` function.

Because null values can propagate through the calculations
of a system, we discourage their indiscriminate use. Carefully bracket your use
of them to test and properly handle the null values. When a null value is
appropriate for the data design, nothing else will do. We applaud the fact that
Visual FoxPro has been endowed with this cool feature.

An interesting feature is how nulls are actually stored
within a table. Since many of the field types can hold any value from 0x00 to
0xFF in each byte, it is impossible to store null values within the current
disk space allocated for each field. Instead, Microsoft created a new field,
called _NullFlags. _NullFlags is a "system" field (bit 0 of byte 18
in the field record portion of the file header is set to 1). This field
contains a bitmap, one bit for each nullable field in the table, in the
physical order of the fields in the table. If a field is to be null, the
associated bit is set on (to 1). This seems awfully kludgy to us, but it does
work, and reliably: Physically rearranging the order of fields in the table, or
programmatically using only some fields with `SET FIELDS TO` doesn't seem to trip
it up. There doesn't seem to be any way within the language to access
_NullFlags directly (our hacker instincts made us try), which is probably all
for the best. However, having hidden, system fields in a table, which don't
show up in a `DISPLAY STRUCTURE`, and which can trip up your space calculations
(see the reference sections on `AFIELDS()` and `RECSIZE()`) is not what we consider
a great leap forward. In this era of "what do you know and when did you
know it," a little more in the way of full disclosure should be expected.

### Take a Memo, Miss Jones

Memo and general fields store their data in a separate file,
the FPT. It makes sense, since memo field data can be of varied lengths, from
an empty note to a monstrous embedded WinWord dissertation. Storing this data
in a separate, non-fixed-length format should minimize the use of disk space.
However, poor tuning or cleanup practices can lead to severe memo field bloat.
Here are two tips to minimize the "out of disk space" blues.

Each time data is written to a memo field, new blocks are
added to the end of the FPT, data is added to them, and then the pointer
contained within the memo header is updated to point at the new data. The old
data remains within the file, and the space it occupied is not reclaimed. Over
a period of time, memo fields can grow beyond control without containing that
much information. This is the dreaded "memo field bloat." The
`ADDITIVE` clause of the `REPLACE` command does not alleviate this, it just makes
it easier to tack one more sentence onto the end of a long memo&mdash;internally, the
same process occurs.

In development, you can reclaim the space with the `PACK MEMO`
command. This packs the file in place, replacing the memo field with a far more
compact one. However, as we discuss in "Commands to Use Only
Interactively," the `PACK` command leaves the developer in the dark if
something goes wrong in mid-flight. See that section for suggested
work-arounds.

VFP provides the `SET BLOCKSIZE` command to allow you to tune
and optimize your use of memo fields. `BLOCKSIZE` accepts a numeric argument:
Passing it 1 through 32 creates blocks of 512 bytes times that number; a number
greater than 32 creates blocks of that number of bytes. A newer option, `SET
BLOCKSIZE TO 0`, stores the memo blocks as individual bytes, rather than as
blocks. It seems to us that this method wastes the least "slack
space" at the end of each memo, but might in some circumstances lead to
greater overhead in processing and reading millions of teeny little blocks.
We're not sure where the breakpoint is between the speed of I/O and the speed
of the processor overhead, and like many other benchmark items, we encourage
you to try it in your environment with your machines and data, to see what
works out best for you.

dBASE III had a somewhat different method of storing the
memo fields (general fields did not exist) in the DBT file. FoxPro can read and
write DBT files, but should you choose to `COPY` a table containing a DBT memo,
the new file will have an FPT memo field instead.

### But We Speak Icelandic Here

Nothing could be worse than porting an application to a new
platform, tweaking all the forms and programs to handle the new (or missing)
features, and then discovering the data is unreadable. But this was exactly
what happened to many FoxPro developers as they brought their information from
DOS to Windows in the 2.5 release. What happened?

What happened was code pages. A code page is the translation
table that the computer uses to translate each of the characters stored on
disk&mdash;8 little bits, storing one of 256 different patterns&mdash;into the single
character we're used to seeing on the screen. While some of these codes are
pretty standardized, people who speak any one of the thousands of languages
other than English use a different code page to represent their characters.
Code pages can be loaded and manipulated in DOS using the `NLSFUNC`, `CHCP` and
`MODE` commands. A typical U.S. code page is 437 for DOS and 1252 for Windows.

In most database applications, code page translation would
be a one-step, pain-in-the-neck translation from the "old" way to the
"new" way, but FoxPro supports access from multiple code pages
simultaneously. Remarkably, it accomplishes this feat, pretty much
transparently, through the use of a code page byte, stored within DBF headers
and also stored as part of compiled code.

That sounds like the happy end to the story, right? We
should all ride off into the sunset now. Well, it's not always that simple,
pardner.

What happens if you're storing data in a field in some sort
of a packed or encrypted format, where you use all 256-byte combinations, and
you need to share that data with someone whose code page differs from yours?
Well, without any other actions, the other user will read your data and see
different numbers, translated courtesy of the Visual FoxPro engine,
automatically and transparently. It's not a bug, it's a feature.

Luckily, there's a solution to this one. As part of defining
a table at creation (see `CREATE TABLE`) or while maintaining a table (see `ALTER
TABLE`), a field can be flagged as `NOCPTRANS`, which tells the FoxPro engine
"Hands off! Don't mess with this one."

Note that the `NOCPTRANS` flag stored within the table itself
is automatically set for Double, Integer, Datetime and Currency fields, even
though it can't (and shouldn't!) be set ON or OFF programmatically for these
field types. That's because the values in these fields are stored in a
binary/packed format, and translation would lead to some awfully funny numbers.

### Date Math

Date math is really cool. Amaze your friends, astound your
competition and baffle the crowd with your ability to glibly say, "Of
course, everyone knows there have been over 280,000 days since the signing of
the Magna Carta, and in that time, blah blah blah..." while simply
calculating:

```foxpro
? date() - {^1297-03-28}
```
A note about the curly braces above. One of the more common
questions we hear is about these funny looking things, and why expressions such
as:

```foxpro
{06/ + ALLTRIM(STR(RAND ()*30)) + /90}
```
return empty dates. The key to understanding these braces is
to understand that they are delimiters, wrapping around a set of characters and
giving FoxPro an idea of what's contained inside, but they are not functions
with the power to evaluate their contents. Just as double and single quotes
delimit a character expression, curly braces designate a date or datetime
expression. Use a conversion function, such as `CTOD()` or `DATE()`, to evaluate a
character function and return a date.

The second strange thing most veteran Xbase developers will
notice is the prefixed caret and the strange ordering of YYYY-MM-DD. This is
the strict date format, stealthily introduced into the product in Visual FoxPro
5.0. In VFP 6, the `SET STRICTDATE` command provides us with some ability to
audit existing code and detect potential Year 2000 compatibility problems. See
"Strictly Speaking..." below for more details.

There are practical uses for this neat technology, too.
Calculating 30-60-90-day aging on an account is a piece of cake. A number of
days can be added or subtracted from a date, or one date can be subtracted from
another to return the difference in days. The various parts of the date can be
returned using the `DAY()`, `MONTH()`, and `YEAR()` functions for numeric calculation
or `CMONTH()` and `CDOW()` functions for character display. Dates can be converted
to character format (`DTOC()`) or from character to date (`CTOD()`) relatively
easily.

In Visual FoxPro, dates are stored within tables as eight
characters of the format YYYYMMDD. Obviously, this practically limits dates to
the range of Year Zero to 9999, but that should be long enough for most of the
business processes we hope to model in VFP.

A few cautions are in order. In the "good old
days," we often extracted portions of a date using substring functions,
modified it, and plunked it back into the value, as in the following:

```foxpro
* BAD CODE *
* Calculate the last day of the month for a supplied date dDate
nMonth=VAL(LEFT(DTOC(dDate),2)) + 1  && increment the month
nYear = VAL(RIGHT(DTOC(dDate),2))   && extract the year
if nMonth = 13
  nMonth = 1
  nYear = nYear + 1
endif
* Now create a new date, the first of next month, 
* and decrement it one day
* to get the last date of the current month
return CTOD(STR(nMonth,2)+"/01/"+STR(nYear,2)) -1
```
Pretty clever, huh? This worked great for many small
U.S.-centric companies in the 1980s, but with the internationalization of
trade, this code is far too bigoted to make it in the 21st century. The assumptions
(and we all know what an assumption does, right?) that the first two characters
of a date are the month, the last are the year and the middle is the day, all
separated by slashes, are Stone Age logic. Check out the `SET DATE` command&mdash;you
can bet that your branch offices in Toronto and London have. Make no
assumptions about the internal position of digits within a date. Let's try this
again. Trapped in a dBase III world, we could just rewrite the function,
preserving the state of `SET DATE`, `SET MARK` and `SET CENTURY`, changing them as
needed, dissecting and reassembling a date, and then resetting the `SET`
variables again, but there's a far more graceful way, using newer FoxPro
functions:

```foxpro
* Dlast() - Return the last day of the month from supplied dDate
dNewDate = GOMONTH(dDate,1)  && add a month to the date
dNewDate = dNewDate - DAY(dNewDate)  && subtract number of days in month
return dNewDate
```
#### On the Other Hand...

You can do some really dumb things with date calculations.
The date and datetime field types are really meant for storing contemporary
dates and times, and are inappropriate for storing date/time fields in
historical, archeological, astronomical or geological time spans. It's overly
precise to try to store the start of the Jurassic era in a date field, and in
fact, it's impossible to store dates Before the Common Era (BCE) or BC. Since
no one really seems to know what time it is, even dates as recent as four
centuries ago make the precision of the date math functions questionable.

For example, `GOMONTH()` won't go back farther than the year
1753, the year after England took on the "Gregorian shift" of the
calendar, jumping 11 days overnight and adding the bizarre leap-year rules of
"every four, except in years ending in 00's, except those divisible by 400."
Okay, got it? Sheesh. Star-dates had better be easier than this. So `GOMONTH()`
works for Mozart, but falls apart for Bach.

It's not just `GOMONTH()`, either. Adding and subtracting
enough days yields wild results too. For example: `{^1999-7-5} - 730246` yields
"03/00/0000". Yes, `DAY()` verifies this date is Day Zero, and `YEAR()`
says Year Zero. Hmmph.

Stick with the recent past, present and future, and you
should be okay.

### It's About Time, It's About Dates...

>My object all sublime<br>
 I shall achieve in time&mdash;<br>
 To make the punishment fit the crime.  
>&mdash;Sir W. S. Gilbert, *The Mikado*, 1885

A new field type, datetime, was introduced in VFP 3. While
primarily intended as a compatibility feature for ease of use with similar
fields in tables in a client-server environment, datetimes offer the intrepid
FoxPro programmer some neat opportunities.

Datetime is stored as an eight-byte field. Supposedly the
first four bytes store the date and the last four store the time. We haven't
hacked this one apart, but we'd love to hear from the hackers who have. 

Like currency fields stored without a unit of measure, we
suggest there may be problems of determining just when this time occurred&mdash;there
is no "time zone" designation. Is this GMT, Eastern Daylight Savings
Time, or Bering? If you anticipate dealing with a database with multiple time
zones, we suggest you consider a region-to-GMT offset table and store all times
as absolute GMT datetimes for ease of calculation.

Datetimes, like dates, can be specified explicitly by using
curly braces. As we explain above, delimiters don't work as conversion
functions, evaluating the expression given to them, but rather just indicate
constants. Nonetheless, Visual FoxPro is pretty clever, accepting any of the
standard date delimiters (slash, dot or hyphen) and either 12- or 24-hour
formatted time, regardless of the settings of `SET MARK TO` or `SET HOURS`. The
order of the month, day and year, however, must be the same as that set by `SET
DATE`. The only exception to that is the use of the strict date form described
above. In that case, the order of the date or datetime is always in the form:

`{^YYYY-MM-DD[,][HH[:MM[:SS]][A|P]]}`

That syntax diagram also is a little misleading. It appears
that you could supply only an hours component and the datetime would resolve. But,
in fact, you get an error message. If you include only the hours component, you
must either include the comma separating the date from the time, or follow the
hours with a colon to have VFP interpret your datetime constant without error.
And a bit of trivia: The smallest expression to generate an empty datetime is
`{/:}`.

### Strictly Speaking...

>Mere facts and names and dates communicate more than we suspect.  
>&mdash;Henry David Thoreau, *Journals* 

Visual FoxPro 5 introduced the idea of "strict"
date entry with the cleverly named `StrictDateEntry` property. The property
allows "loose" data entry where we depend upon the machine to
interpret the varieties of hyphens, dashes and slashes we throw at it. At the
same time, the Fox team added a curveball: a new format for loose
`StrictDateEntry` that allows the data-entry operator to override the
preformatted date sequence by preceding the date with a caret. Following the
caret, the date is always interpreted in a consistent manner: year, month, day,
and, in the case of datetime values, hour, minute and second.

This innovation in VFP 5 laid the groundwork for the
introduction in VFP 6 of the `SET STRICTDATE` command. This command, essential
for ensuring Year 2000 compliance in code, generates errors at compile time,
and optionally at runtime, reporting that code contains dates that can be
ambiguous. Since the ordering of day, month and year is determined by `SET DATE`,
both in the runtime and development environments, "constants" (as
well as expressions using the date conversion functions like `CTOD()`) can be
interpreted in more than one way. The `SET STRICTDATE` command lets you flag
these variable constants unless they, too, now use the strict date format of
caret, year, month, day. For conversion from string to date or datetime, the `DATE()`
and `DATETIME()` functions have been beefed up.

### Float, Double, Integer, Numeric and Currency&mdash;What's in a Number

There are a number (sorry) of different fields in Fox, all
of which seem to store the same or similar data. The reason for this is
primarily backward and sideways compatibility with previous Fox and Xbase
products. There are some differences, however...

#### Float

Seems to be same as numeric. Float exists to allow
compatibility with other database products that treated numeric and float
fields differently. Visual FoxPro treats them no differently internally.

#### Double

Always stores as length 8, but allows you to change decimal
places from zero to 18. A fixed format used primarily for client-server
compatibility, it's manipulated internally the same as any other numeric by
FoxPro, but stored differently.

#### Integer

Integer was probably one of the most useful data types
introduced in Visual FoxPro 3.0. Stored in only four bytes on disk, the field
has a range from &ndash;2147483647 to plus 2147483647. If you need to track whole
numbers only, this can be a compact and efficient way to do it. We find these
fields to be ideal as primary keys, since they're small and form smaller
indexes, and also are easy to manipulate and increment. They're also the
fastest way to join tables in a `SQL SELECT`.

#### Numeric

A numeric field allows up to 20 numeric digits to be
entered, but one space is occupied by the decimal point, if used. Microsoft
describes accuracy as 16 digits, but 14 seems closer to the truth. Check this
out:

```foxpro
lnNumeric = 98765432109876543210  && Here's 20 digits
* In VFP 3, you'll see these numbers with no 
* digits to the left of the decimal point and
* with exponents of 20. In VFP 5, Microsoft adopted the
* more common syntax of making the mantissa a single digit shown below:
? lnNumeric                       && displays 9.8765432109876E+19
? STR(lnNumeric)                  && displays 9.876E+19
? STR(lnNumeric,16)               && displays 9.876543210E+19
? STR(lnNumeric,20)               && displays 9.8765432109876E+19
? STR(lnNumeric,25)               && displays 9.876543210987639000E+19
```
Numeric fields are stored in character format, such as
".98765432109876E+20".

#### Currency

>Only one fellow in ten thousand understands the currency question, and we meet him every day.  
>&mdash;Kin Hubbard

A currency field is a fixed numeric field, always stored as
eight bytes, with four decimal places. These fields are marked by default as
`NOCPTRANS`, since the data is packed. Currency is a funny field type. Just as
datetime stores a time without a time zone, currency stores a value without a
unit. Also like datetime, this field type was introduced primarily for
compatibility with client-server databases. But is this currency in dollars,
euros, or yen? An international application needs to know if it's running in
Zurich or New Delhi.

Like datetime, currency introduces some new functions and
delimiters into the language. `NTOM()` and `MTON()` convert numerics to currency
and vice versa (think "money" rather than "currency"). The
dollar-sign delimiter preceding a numeric literal forces the type to currency.

Math involving currency and other numerics introduces a new
kink. What's the result of multiplying two currency values&mdash;a numeric or a
currency value? What about trigonometry on these values? We could engage in
quite a diatribe on the meaning of unitless and "unit-ed" variables
being processed together, but it doesn't really matter&mdash;Microsoft has a method
to its madness, and while it might be different from what we would've come up
with, it works under most circumstances: Basic four-function math (addition,
subtraction, multiplication and division) involving currency gives results in
currency. Exponentiation and trigonometry yield numerics.

### Logical

>"Contrariwise," continued Tweedledee, "if it was so, it might be; and if it were so, it would be; but as it isn't, it ain't. That's logic."  
>&mdash;Lewis Carroll, *Through the Looking-Glass*, 1872

Not too much has changed with the logical field type since
the FoxPro 2.x days. With the introduction of NULLs, described above, a logical
field can contain a third value, .NULL., as well as the standard values of .T.
and .F. (Okay, it's true they could contain a fourth state of BLANK, but we
strongly argue against ever using it.) Logical fields take up one byte in a
table, even though they really only need a single bit. With the data
compression Microsoft implemented in double, datetime, currency and integer
fields, as well as shrinking the size of the memo and general fields from 10
bytes to four, we're surprised they didn't try to implement some sort of
byte-and-offset addressing for storing multiple logical fields in a single byte
as well.

### Hip Hip Array!

Arrays are not truly a different type of variable, but they
are a method of aggregating several values, of the same or different types,
into one place. Arrays make it easier to handle things like disk directories
(`ADIR()`), field descriptions (`AFIELDS()`), and object properties, events and
methods (`AMEMBERS()`). Arrays can be used to hold data on its way to and from
tables&mdash;`SCATTER`, `GATHER` and `INSERT` all support array clauses. Understanding how
to manipulate these arrays, especially how they are referenced by different
functions, is an important aspect of Visual FoxPro programming.

Arrays come in two flavors&mdash;one-dimensional and two-dimensional&mdash;distinguished
by the number of subscripts supplied with them. However, internally, both array
types are stored the same way, and functions that work with one type work with
the other as well. This can lead to some confusion. Suppose you create an array:

```foxpro
LOCAL ARRAY aRay[2,5]
```
We would view this array as a table of two rows and five
columns, and on the whole, Visual FoxPro would be willing to go along with us
on this. But if we try to locate a value that we know is in the third element
of the second row by using the `ASCAN()` function:

```foxpro
aRay[2,3] = "My value"
? ASCAN(aRAY,"My value")
```
Visual FoxPro returns 6! Well, what would you expect? 2? 3?
Since Visual FoxPro is limited to returning a single value from a function, it
returns the ordinal number of the element in the array. We can use the function
`ASUBSCRIPT()` to get the appropriate row and column values:

```foxpro
? ASUBSCRIPT(aRay,ASCAN(aRay,"My value"),1)  && returns 2
? ASUBSCRIPT(aRay,ASCAN(aRay,"My value"),2)  && returns 3
```
(Actually, starting in version 7, `ASCAN()` can optionally
return the row where it found the value. See the Reference section for
details.)

Even more interesting, we can just use the single digit
returned. The fact is that FoxPro is willing to use any combination of rows and
columns we supply to reference an element, as long as we do not exceed the
defined number of rows:

```foxpro
? aRay[6]    && displays "My Value"
? aRay[1,6]  && also displays "My value"
? aRay[2,3]  && "My value" again
? aRay[6,1]  && Whoa! Errors with "Subscript is outside defined range"
```
You can determine the number of rows and columns of an array
by using the `ALEN()` function.

You can change the dimensions of an array on the fly by
issuing another `DIMENSION`, `LOCAL ARRAY` or `PUBLIC` statement, depending on the
scope of your variable. Redimensioning does not erase the values of the array,
but it can rearrange them in some pretty funny ways. The values originally
assigned to the array in ordinal form are reassigned to the new array with the
same ordinal values. This can result in some pretty useless-looking arrays,
with values slipping diagonally across the columns. Instead, try out our
aColCopy() function (under `ACOPY()` in the Reference section) for a better way
to do this.

Many functions also redimension arrays automatically to fit
the contents of the function. As a general rule, functions redimension arrays
to fit only those values the function returns. Typically, the array is created
or redimensioned only if the function has something to put in it. We note in
the Reference section where functions don't follow these thumbrules.

The array manipulations you'll often want to do are
inserting and deleting rows from the array, and you'll probably suspect that
`AINS()` and `ADEL()` are the functions to do this. Foolish mortal. `AINS()` does, in
fact, create a row of new values (all initialized to .F.), but it does this by
pushing the following rows down, until the last falls off the array into the
bit bucket. `ADEL()` reverses the process, causing rows of elements to move up
over the deleted one, and leaving an empty row at the bottom. In both cases, a
call to `DIMENSION` or its equivalent before or after the function, respectively,
will complete what you need to do. Again, more information on this, and the far
less simple column operations, is available in the Reference section, under the
associated functions, as well as in the overview "Array
Manipulation."

#### Passing an Array

An array can only be passed to another routine using
explicit referencing. That means the array name must be preceded with the
symbol "@" when passed as a parameter. Forgetting to append this
symbol causes only the first element of the array to be passed; this is one of
our favorite programming omissions that drive us mad trying to troubleshoot.

An array passed by reference, as we explain in ["XBase
XPlained,"](s1c3.md) really has only one occurrence in memory, and all changes
performed by called routines have their effect on this one array. Caution is
called for.

#### Returning an Array

VFP 7 added the ability to return an array from a function
by again using the "@" symbol and the array name in the `RETURN`
statement. However, there are some gotchas with this technique; see `RETURN` in
the Reference section for details.

### International Settings: Using the Control Panel

>Henry IV's feet and armpits enjoyed an international reputation.  
>&mdash;Aldous Huxley

There's a wonderful though little-used resource for
international settings&mdash;dates, times, currency, etc.&mdash;available through the
Windows Control Panel, in the Regional Settings applet. These dialogs are
available to your users, and you don't have to maintain the code! What you do
have to do is check to see if your users have modified them. Check out the
Registry under HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Control Panel\International and modify the
behavior of your application appropriately. See `SET SYSFORMATS` for more
information on using the user's Windows settings.

### General Fields: Object Linking and Embedding

>I drink to the general joy of the whole table.  
>&mdash;William Shakespeare, *Macbeth*

General fields are Visual FoxPro's implementation of the technology
formerly known as "Object Linking and Embedding," then
"OLE," and then "Active" something or other. While the
marketeers don't seem to be happy with any name they've thought of so far, the
idea of this portion of the implementation remains the same: Provide a portal
between FoxPro and some other application (the "OLE Server") and
store the information about that link and the data shared here.

OLE, er, Active, er, this stuff is no cakewalk. For many of
the gory details, see the section "Active Something" as well as the
individual reference sections for `APPEND GENERAL`, `MODIFY GENERAL`, `OLEControl`
and `OLEBoundControl`. 

A couple of cautions here. General fields contain several
pieces of information: All contain "display data," and have either a
path to data (for linked data) or the embedded data itself. The
"display" or "presentation" data is a raw BMP that Visual
FoxPro uses to show that the field is occupied. In Word 2.0, this was the big
blue W logo. Word 6.0 allowed you to store a representation of the first page
of a document. MS Graph showed&mdash;surprise!&mdash;the graph. But some OLE severs can be
a problem. Graphics servers, which store pictures, are usually forced to
provide Visual FoxPro with a BMP for presentation data, even if their graphic
is in another format (like the far more compact JPG format). This BMP can be
HUGE; a large image rendered in 24-bitplanes (roughly a bazillion colors) can
take megabytes of space. This space is used even if the data is only *linked*
to the field! Anticipate a large amount of storage space if you choose to link
very large or very high-resolution documents. Consider other techniques (such
as just storing the path and filenames in a character field, and using a cursor
to hold one image at a time) if disk space is a concern.

One last note about general fields. A general field is
nothing more than a special form of the memo field that contains binary data,
including a "wrapper" around the data that tells FoxPro who to call
to manipulate this data&mdash;the OLE server. When data is called up and changed and
saved back to the memo field, new blocks of the memo field are allocated for
the new data, and the old blocks are internally marked as not used. These old
blocks are never reused. What happens over a period of time is that the memo file
will grow and grow and grow. To alleviate this problem, you can consider using
the `PACK MEMO` command to shrink the file (but only after reading the cautions
in "Commands Never to Use") or use the equivalent `COPY/SELECT`,
`RENAME`, `DELETE` routine to refresh the file.

### Mr. Database Event, You're Fired!

Database events fire whether you do something visually or
programmatically, in a runtime or development environment, through VFP code or
through ADO. So, they're sort of like triggers, except they fire in response to
things you do to a database or its members rather than the contents of a table.
Think of them as "Events for the Data Definition Language" instead of
"Events for the Data Manipulation Language." See "Database
Events" and related topics in the Reference section for complete details
on the events that are available and how each works.

Let's explore some ideas for where you might use database
events. There are two different kinds of things you can use them for:
development tools and runtime behavior.

#### Development Tools

Database events can be used in a number of tools that can
make development easier and more productive. Examples include enforcing
standards, handling renamed objects, and team development.

Your organization might have standards for naming tables,
views and fields (for example, perhaps all tables in the Accounts Receivable
database should start with "AR", the first character of all field
names must represent the data type or be a four-letter abbreviation for the
table, and so on). You may also require the Comment property of every table,
view and field to be filled in. Rather than writing an auditing tool you have
to remember to run, you could create database events that automatically warn if
the standard isn't followed. The following events are all candidates for this:
`AfterAddTable`, `AfterCreateTable`, `AfterModifyTable`, `BeforeRenameTable`,
`AfterCreateView`, `AfterModifyView`, `BeforeRenameView`, `AfterCreateConnection`,
`AfterModifyConnection`, and `BeforeRenameConnection`.

While changing the name of a table is easy, it isn't so easy
to track down every place the former name is used. Stored procedures, forms,
reports and PRG files can all reference the former table name. You can put code
in `AfterRenameTable` (as well as `AfterRenameView` and `AfterRenameConnection`) to
open a project, go through all files in the project, look for the former name
(the cPreviousName parameter passed to the event contains this), and either
replace it with the new name (contained in the cNewName parameter) or at least
print the locations or add them to the Task List so a developer can make the
changes manually. Because a database might be used by more than one project,
you might have to provide a way to track which projects to process.

Handling renamed fields and indexes is trickier; because
`AfterModifyTable` and `AfterModifyView` don't tell you what changes were made, you
have to store the previous structure somewhere (such as in a cursor in
`BeforeModify` events or in metadata), and then in the `AfterModify` events try to
figure out what happened. It's not easy; a renamed field looks no different
than if you were to delete one field and add another.

When anything in the database changes (such as tables or
views being added, removed or altered), database event code could automatically
send an email to every member of the development team informing them of the
changes. You could also log who changed something and when, and even prompt the
user to enter a short comment about the change.

Besides these serious uses, imagine the fun you can have with
your fellow developers when you put code in various "before" events
that returns .F. to prevent them from doing something or makes fun of them in
some way (think of the French knight mocking King Arthur in "Monty Python
and the Holy Grail"; sound files are available for download from various
Web sites). Sit back and watch them try to alter the structure of a table,
remove a table, and so on. For even more fun, make the events time-specific,
such as only between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. on Thursdays. April 1 is a particularly
good day to wreak havoc!

#### Runtime Behavior

Database events can also be used in a runtime environment to
provide functionality VFP developers have requested for years. Some uses
include table and database security and hacker prevention.

Returning .F. from `BeforeOpenTable` prevents a table or view
from being opened. Obviously, you don't want to do this for every table and
view under all conditions (otherwise, the database would be rendered useless),
but opening tables based on user security may make sense for some applications.
Here's an example:

```foxpro
PROCEDURE DBC_BeforeOpenTable(cTableName)
IF UPPER(cTableName) = "PAYROLL"
    RETURN gcUserName == "ADMIN"
ELSE
    RETURN .T.
ENDIF
```
This code assumes that a global variable named gcUserName
contains the name of the logged-in user, and prevents anyone but ADMIN from
opening the PAYROLL table.

As with table security, an entire database can be secured by
conditionally returning .F. from the `OpenData` event.

Sometimes, we need to prevent someone from altering the
structure of a table or view. We're not so worried about malicious hackers as
those users who embody the expression "a little knowledge is a dangerous
thing." Such users could be using a development copy of VFP or ADO via
Access or Excel. To prevent this, return .F. in the `BeforeModifyTable` and
`BeforeModifyView` events.

To prevent someone from changing or disabling the events for
the DBC (which would allow them to get around everything that database events
are providing for you), return .F. in the `BeforeModifyProc` and `BeforeAppendProc`
events, and in `BeforeDBSetProp` if the property being changed is
"DBCEvents" or "DBCEventFileName." This approach isn't
foolproof, since someone with a development copy of VFP can `USE` the DBC (that
is, open it as a table, which is what it really is), modify the code in the
Code memo of the StoredProceduresSource record, and then close and `COMPILE
DATABASE`. To prevent this, use a separate PRG file for the database event code,
and build that PRG into the application's EXE so it can't be viewed or altered.
The downside is that now the DBC can be opened only when the EXE is running,
preventing its access from ADO. In some situations, that may not be a bad
thing, though.

To prevent someone from seeing the code in the stored
procedures (for example, because it contains proprietary information), return
.F. in the `BeforeModifyProc` and `BeforeCopyProc` events.

### Conclusion

File storage within Visual FoxPro is similar to earlier
versions of FoxPro, but with some powerful enhancements provided by the
Database Container. New fields and field capabilities have been added. VFP 7
still retains the trademark backward compatibility, allowing it to read all
dBase III and Fox tables. Some compatibility with older versions has been lost,
but we feel the benefits of the new features far outweigh the limitations, and
that workarounds are available for most of the incompatibilities.