## "It Was Automation, You Know"

>Besides black art, there is only automation and mechanization.  
>&mdash;Federico García Lorca, 1936

Have you ever been working in one application and really
needed some capability from another? Say you were creating a report in FoxPro,
but really needed Word's formatting prowess? Or maybe you needed to do
calculations on a few items of data contained in a set of spreadsheets? We sure
have, more times than we can count. 

In the real world, many of the things people want to do
aren't segregated into discrete kinds of tasks. Sure, sometimes all you want to
do is write a letter or total some numbers. But more often, you want to create
a complex report with pictures and maybe some spreadsheet data and so forth.
(Heck, even our kids do this sort of thing starting in middle school these
days.)

Finding a way to handle interaction among applications has
been computing's equivalent of searching for the Rosetta Stone since not too
long after the PC was introduced. Various approaches have been tried over the
years. 

First, we had applications that could read data in other
formats or write their own data out in a format another application could
understand. That helped, but it didn't solve the problem.

Next up, we got the integrated applications, like Framework,
Q&amp;A, ClarisWorks and Microsoft Works. These tried to throw all the apps you
might need into a single package. The price was that none of the apps inside
was particularly powerful, and they could only talk to each other through
common file formats, though they knew something about each other's formats.

Until the Windows world, that was pretty much it. Windows
brought us Dynamic Data Exchange (DDE), which let one application order another
around. Progress, but it was awfully hard to use. Windows also introduced
Object Linking and Embedding (OLE). That gave us a way to combine data from
different applications into a single document, but still didn't quite solve the
problem.

Then along came Automation (called OLE Automation at the
time, until Microsoft decided that the term "OLE" wasn't snazzy
enough for them, so they dropped it). Automation lets one application speak
directly to another in a simple object-based way, and makes it easy to work
with data from multiple applications at the same time. 

We love Automation! In fact, this book was assembled using
Automation. We wrote it using Word (a word processor did seem like the most
appropriate choice). Each chapter, as well as each entry in the Reference
section, was stored in a separate document. (That's 900-odd documents, if
you're counting.) Of course, being FoxPro programmers, we tracked the progress
of each document using a set of VFP tables.

Eventually, we finished, though not by the time that we're
writing this. (That was a sentence only Raymond Smullyan could love.) But how
do you turn over 900 documents into a book and a CHM file? Automation to the
rescue. Focusing on the hairiest part of the book, the Reference section (which
is not in the printed book), we told Word to open each of the documents, convert them to HTML, and
put them in the proper location for the CHM file. We used Automation for the
previous editions of this book, too, and were amazed how easily, accurately and
quickly an error-prone, tedious operation was completed.

As Automation itself has become more common, Microsoft has
morphed OLE into ActiveX and, more recently, ActiveX into COM (Component Object
Model). COM gives us the ability to talk not just to other applications, but to
an assortment of operating system objects as well. Clearly, Automation brings
us much closer to the lingua franca. But how do you use it?

### Putting Automation to Work

>Far and away the best prize that life offers is the chance to work hard at work worth doing.  
>&mdash;Theodore Roosevelt, 1903

The good news is that if you're comfortable with VFP's
object-oriented syntax, where one object calls another's methods, and you can
manipulate behavior by changing properties, Automation is easy. It's just
another set of objects, each with its own properties and methods. 

The bad news is that, for each application you want to talk
to, you have to learn a new object model. Each one has its own objects in their
own hierarchy, and some of it is pretty obscure (not to mention
underdocumented).

You may have already won a million dollars. No, wait a
minute! That's Ed McMahon's line. Let's try again. You may have already worked
with some Automation objects. The Project object introduced in VFP 6 is an
Automation object, as are the DataObjects used in OLE Drag and Drop, and the
`Objects` collection found in the VFP container classes.

Most Automation objects, though, don't make themselves
available quite so transparently. You have to go out and grab the object you
want (using `CREATEOBJECT()`, `GetObject()`, or `CREATEOBJECTEX()`). Once you have a
reference to it, though, you can do all kinds of things, from opening documents
with the application to saving them to sending data from VFP to the other
application to bringing the other application's data into VFP.

### But Where Did Automation Come From?

Automation offers the opportunity to start moving our
applications away from the one-app-does-it-all method of writing huge
applications, toward an application design where more of the components are
pulled off the shelf and the job of the application developer becomes one of
identifying the correct components and providing the glue to bring them
together. Much of the productivity gain of the Industrial Age came from the
availability of cheap, interchangeable parts available in large quantities from
many vendors. Automation may lead to a similar availability of component parts
for our applications.

Automation is similar in many ways to the DDE (Dynamic Data
Exchange) protocol it's eclipsing. Both require applications on each end to
carry on a conversation. Both require one of the applications to initiate the
conversation (the client), and one to respond (the server). (This is an
unfortunate choice of terms, as client-server means something completely
different in the world of database management systems.) There are also
differences&mdash;Automation is implemented by a new engine, and in a different way,
than DDE is. Automation has the opportunity of being a visible as well as
invisible participant in the ongoing events. 

Automation is a replacement for DDE, but a far richer and
more visual replacement. In exchange, it also tends to be far more
resource-intensive. Automation allows direct dialogue between applications,
giving the programmer the opportunity to take advantage of the strengths of the
different applications making up the total client solution. In this way,
Automation can be thought of as an inter-application or Windows batch language.

Automation was introduced in the OLE 2.0 standard. The
Microsoft Office Development Kit for Office 95 states that "Different
applications expose different objects in different ways." This is an
understatement. Every application we've worked with has its own unique implementation
of Automation. We are seeing improvement, however: Microsoft has standardized
on VBA for their Office applications, and is trying to bring similar object
models to other applications as well. VBA has been licensed by a number of
third-party vendors, too. But many tools, both within and outside Microsoft,
lag behind, with weird implementations, actions that fire on setting property
values, strange callback schemes, and hard-to-decipher error messages.
Nonetheless, despite the frustrations of having to learn to speak a new
language with each application, the power of Automation promises to bring new
levels of functionality and features to our applications.

### I'd Rather Fight Than Switch

So is DDE dead? Nope, not by a long shot. While Automation
has supplanted DDE in many applications and has become the more stable and
reliable of the two, many third-party applications are just now getting on
board the Automation bandwagon. Other applications may never need to make the
switch, so the older DDE means of communication will still be needed for some
time. If you have an application running satisfactorily using DDE, we can't
recommend that you switch. On the other hand, if you have a DDE link to an
application that keeps failing or crashing or just not working, press the
vendor for an Automation solution (or shop for a vendor offering one) and see
if that makes for a more solid solution.

### Using FoxPro as a Client

Visual FoxPro works quite well as the client in an
Automation conversation, directing the work of other Automation servers. It's
quite impressive to see the database-processing power of Visual FoxPro
augmented by the features of Word, Excel or Visio (or whatever Automation
server you need to use). There are four commands to initiate Automation:
`CREATEOBJECT()`, `NewObject()`, `GetObject()` and `CREATEOBJECTEX()`. 

`CREATEOBJECT()` is used to create new objects (surprising,
huh?) based on either Visual FoxPro class definitions (base classes or class
definitions in programs, procedures or VCXs) or from OLE objects defined in the
Windows Registry.

```foxpro
oObjectHandle = CreateObject(cClassName)
```
`NewObject()` sure sounds similar to `CREATEOBJECT()`, doesn't
it? It does essentially the same thing for COM objects. Its main advantage for
VFP-coded classes is that the class library can be specified as part of the
`NewObject()` call.

```foxpro
oObjectHandle = NewObject(cClassName, cClassLibrary)
```
`GetObject()` is used to access a pre-existing object, and is
used only for Automation, unlike the overloaded `CREATEOBJECT()` above.

```foxpro
oObjectHandle = GetObject(cFileName, OLEClassName)
```
In most cases, only the file name must be supplied&mdash;COM
matches the file up to its appropriate server. In the case where a file might
have more than one server that could work with it, or where the file has a
non-standard extension that doesn't specify the server, cClassName should be
used to indicate which class to use.

Finally, `CREATEOBJECTEX()` is the extended version of
`CREATEOBJECT()`, though used only for COM objects. You give it the class name,
and optionally the name of a remote computer, and you can take advantage of
Distributed COM (DCOM) objects. A feature new to VFP 7 is that you can also
optionally specify the interface for early binding (see the Reference section).

Once you've instantiated an object, you can manipulate it by
using the properties and methods it "exposes" through COM. The next
section illustrates the kind of interfaces that may be presented.

In addition to manipulating the properties and methods, you
may want to respond to events raised by that control. It wasn't until VFP 6
that you could use VFPCOM, a separate free utility from Microsoft, to react to
events in another COM object. While it generally worked well, it was a separate
DLL that needed to be shipped and installed with your application. VFP 7 has incorporated
event binding right into the product with the `EVENTHANDLER()` function. 

One note on the syntax you'll encounter below. Some commands
and property references use the `Object` property. This isn't really a Visual
FoxPro property; it's a means of clarifying that you want to speak to the
server contained within an OLE control, rather than the OLE control itself.
This syntax is required only when an OLE server object and the OLE control have
a property or method with the same name&mdash;use `Object` to make it clear that you
mean the contained OLE server's property or method, and not that of the
container.

### Automation with the Office Applications

>When I give a man an office, I watch him carefully to see whether he is swelling or growing.  
>&mdash;Woodrow Wilson, 1916

Word 97 changed everything from the challenges we described
in our original *Hacker's Guide.* Where
Word 6.0 exposed only a single "Word.Basic" object and you had to
manipulate all of the Word features through a difficult interface, Word 97
introduced a rich object model that made it easy to work with just the feature
set you need.

We've heard many complaints that every example of Automation
anyone can find uses the same example: Open Word, load and print a document,
and close Word. It's not only boring, it's trivial and useless. So we've got a
better solution: We won't show you an example at all. The easy examples are,
well, easy, and the tough ones are way too specific. Here's a little bit of
advice instead.

First, take advantage of the Help provided with the product.
Search for "Visual Basic" in your version of Word for instructions on
installing and running the help for VBA. Other Office products have similar
topics. These are your best friends as you stick your toes into the waters of
automating the Office applications. 

If you're going to get into Office Automation in a big way,
get the best references out there. In our opinion, there's no better reference
than the Hentzenwerke book, *Microsoft Office Automation with Visual FoxPro*
(we should know, as Tamar and Della wrote it, and Ted edited it). See <a href="http://www.hentzenwerke.com/" target="_blank">www.hentzenwerke.com</a> for more
information about the book. In addition, Microsoft publishes a monstrous set of
books detailing every nook and cranny of the interface. Start slowly, and build
your way up. A number of other authors have written killer books on using the
Office tools. Our litmus test is pretty easy: Recall a problem you encountered
in automating Office that took a while to resolve. Go to your local bookstore and
check the indexes and tables of contents of the books to see if you can solve
the problem. Read the section involved. If you understand the solution and like
the writing style, buy the book. If they can't solve a problem you've already
run into, what are the chances they'll solve any others? Take a pass.

Our favorite way to start an Automation programming session
is to start in the tool we want to automate and record the sequence of actions.
The easiest way to learn to program Word, Excel or PowerPoint is to record a
macro of the steps you need to take, and then translate it into matching VFP
code. Unfortunately, there isn't a one-to-one correspondence from the VBA code
into the code VFP uses via Automation because VBA allows the use of named
arguments. However, the translation isn't that difficult. Here's the trick.

In languages that support only positional arguments (like
FoxPro), parameters are passed to a function in a specific order, and elements
not needed for that call are left empty or placeholders are supplied, as in
this example:

```foxpro
Do MyFunc with "One","Two","Three", , , , "Seven"
```
But in languages that support named arguments, you can pass
only those parameters that are needed, by preceding each with the parameter
name, like this:

```foxpro
MailMerge CheckErrors = 0, Destination = 3, MergeRecords = 0
```
While somewhat more self-documenting, this notation is
wordier and is more difficult to work with using Automation, which supports
only the positional form. Versions of Office prior to Office 97 didn't always
document the correct positional form, and additional documentation needed to be
dug out of the Microsoft documentation dungeons. With the later versions, they
seem to have done a much better job of covering the language.

### Digging Into Other Servers

You will no doubt be called upon to automate other servers.
The good news is that, even if the books supplied with a server seem lacking in
essential details, most of what you need to know to automate a server is built
in to the server and its supporting files. With Visual FoxPro 7 and later,
IntelliSense should automatically provide much of this information to you. In
earlier versions, using the Class Browser, Office's Object Browser, or another
OLE-snooping tool (see below), you should be able to determine the interface of
the server, the constants it uses, and the parameters it requires in its method
calls. Type Libraries, typically with extensions of TLB and OLB, are the files
an application uses to register itself on your machine. The libraries contain
the definitions of method names, parameters and constants added to the Registry
and made available to calling programs to validate their method calls. You,
too, can access this information, with a variety of tools. 

The first tool in your Automation toolbox is the IntelliSense
feature in VFP 7. Provided that you've used *early binding* when you
declare your variable (the `AS` clause in the `LOCAL` command, below), IntelliSense
can prompt you for the members in the object. Imagine you are typing in the
following code:

```foxpro
LOCAL oWord AS Word.Application
oWord = CreateObject("Word.Application")
oWord. 
```
Just after you hit that period on the last line, a popup
appears, showing you the list of available members. You can scroll down the
list to find the `Visible` property, or the `Documents` collection. You won't find
the `Font` object, as it's not a member of the `Application` object. Since many of
the resources available list the PEMs in alphabetical order, IntelliSense is a
wonderful tool for making sense out of what you're actually able to use for the
object. See ["Intellisense and Sensibility"](..\section5\s5c4.md) for more information on
IntelliSense.

Should you need a little more help than IntelliSense
provides, your second tool is VFP 7's 
Object Browser. This cool tool is even an improvement on the Object Browsers
provided with VBA, as it sorts the members into categories, such as properties,
events, methods and constants. Click the Open icon, and you're presented with a
dialog listing all the registered COM objects. Choose the appropriate one, and
the list of members (PEMs, constants, interfaces, etc.) is displayed. You can
examine constant values, see the syntax to the methods, and determine which
objects the method or property belongs to. The Object Browser also provides an
easy way to solve the constants problem: Just drag the Constants node into a
program file, and VFP `#DEFINE`'s are created for all the constants. 

If you haven't upgraded to VFP 7 (what are you waiting
for?), you can view type libraries with the Class Browser. It can open and
examine Type Libraries. Click the Open icon, and drop down the listing of file
types&mdash;note that both TLB and OLB files are listed.  You can also use the Visual Basic or VBA Object Browsers. (In
Word, Tools, Macro, VB Editor gets you to the Visual Basic editor. Select Tools, References, pick the COM component you want to examine, and then press F2 to
bring up the Object Browser). 

If these tools aren't enough, you can really get down and
dirty with the OLE View tool that comes with Visual Studio (assuming you have
access to Visual Studio). It's normally installed as part of the standard
Visual Studio install. It lets you examine OLE interfaces in some detail, down
to the GUID numbers and the Access and Assign interfaces for each exposed
member. Several third-party tools are available that expand on the Microsoft
tool; you'll easily find a wide variety of free and inexpensive utilities by
searching the Internet.

### Turning the Tables

>It is not real work unless you would rather be doing something else.  
>&mdash;J. M. Barrie, 1922

Like so much else these days, Automation looks at the world
in terms of clients and servers. The application that starts the conversation
and says, "Hey, you! I want to talk to you!" is the client. The
application on the other end of the line, the one saying "Yeah? What's up,
man?" is the server. In our various examples above, VFP was always the
client, telling Word to assemble our book or telling Excel to hand over some
data so it could be stored in a table for further processing. And, in fact, in
VFP 3, that was your only choice. FoxPro could be an Automation client only. 

In VFP 5, Microsoft added an interesting capability. They
allowed VFP to be used as an Automation server. So, other applications can call
on VFP to hand over some data or whatever's called for. You can even call on
the VFP Automation server from inside VFP, using the built-in Application
object (or the system variable that references it, _VFP). The application
object's DoCmd, Eval and SetVar methods let you execute a VFP command, evaluate
an expression, and assign a value to a variable, creating it if necessary,
respectively.

For fun, call on VFP 7 from VFP 3 by issuing:

```foxpro
oVFP = CreateObject("VFP.Application")
```
Then, use the oVFP reference and its methods to execute VFP
7 code in VFP 3. Well, it's not really in VFP 3, any more than a command you
send to Word through Automation is executing in VFP. But it is fun. However,
there's not much practical use for this particular ability, because you have to
have VFP 7 to do it. Why would you bother with VFP 3 when VFP 7 is available?

More importantly, because VFP is an Automation server, other
applications can call up and say, "Run this query and hand me the
results" or "Here's some new data for you. Please store it where it
belongs." We're also fairly certain that, without the ability to act as an
Automation server, VFP couldn't play with OLE drag and drop, one of the coolest
additions back in VFP 6.

### Would You Care for a Custom Server?

>He serves his party best who serves his country best.  
>&mdash;Rutherford B. Hayes, *Inaugural Address*, 1877

However, working with VFP through its `Application` interface
can get a little tedious. You can manipulate properties and even objects in an
OOP way, but to execute any custom code, you're stuck with the `DoCmd`, `Eval` and
`SetVar` methods. While you can do just about anything, it doesn't take too long
to get tedious this way.

If the goal is to have access to a fixed set of operations,
there's another way to go. Instead of working with the whole VFP Automation
object, use VFP to build a custom class with methods for the things you want to
do. Have VFP build it into a server for you (by declaring it OLEPublic). Then,
you can instantiate your server object from other applications, and call on its
methods to do what needs to be done.

An Automation server is a DLL or EXE created in FoxPro. It
presents COM interfaces that can be manipulated by other programs. So how do
you create those interfaces? How do you create the DLL or EXE? How do you
choose between DLL or EXE, for that matter? And finally, once you've solved all
that, how do you distribute your Automation server to the world?

All objects you want to make accessible through COM must be
created as part of a VFP project. The process of building a project into an EXE
or DLL creates the appropriate Registry entries and the additional files needed
to turn a VFP program or class into a COM object.

COM interfaces are nothing more than method calls, just like
the ones we're used to making. It's the packaging that's different. All classes
containing interfaces you want to make public must be declared with the keyword
`OLEPUBLIC`. For classes defined in code, this keyword is used in the `DEFINE
CLASS` statement; for visually designed classes, the OLE Public check box must
be checked in the Class Info dialog. 

Once you've defined a class as OLE Public, you'll probably
want to tweak the class definition a bit so only those PEMs you want accessible
to the outside world are visible via COM. In the Class Designer, check
Protected on the Members tab for all those PEMs you want to keep internal to
the object. Public members are exposed as part of the COM interface. If you're
defining the class in code, use the Protected keyword for the properties and
methods to hide. For greater control of the visibility of PEMS, you could use
the Session object, which exposes only custom PEMs. Still greater control is
obtained by using VFP 7's new `_COMATTRIB` flags on the `DEFINE CLASS` command.
These flags follow the method definition, and designate whether the method is
restricted, hidden or non-browsable&mdash;these are varying forms of hiding the
method from other developers looking at it through property and object
browsers. The `_COMATTRIB` flags can also be used to make properties read-only
and write-only. See `DEFINE CLASS` in the Reference section for details on how to
use these features.

In your method, it's pretty much business as usual. You
define the parameters for the method to receive, perform the processing code,
and return a result. Essentially, there's no difference in the behavior of
FoxPro code within a COM server; it's just running in the runtime as far as it
is concerned. Since you're running as a COM object, however, there are a few
additional considerations you need to keep in mind. 

First, most developers who use COM objects are used to
seeing a brief description of what the method does, what parameter and expected
data types are passed to the method, and what is returned from the method. VFP
7 offers some new enhancements to the `DEFINE CLASS` command to help out developers
who use your COM objects. The `HELPSTRING` keyword sets the help string displayed
in an object browser.  For example:

```foxpro
PROCEDURE GetCustomerName(tcCustID) ;
  HELPSTRING "Accepts the customer ID and returns the customer name."
ENDPROC 
```
`DEFINE CLASS` now has strong typing, too. Visual FoxPro has
notoriously been a weakly typed language, meaning that all variables are seen
as *variant* types. You don't have to explain to FoxPro what the variable
contains, nor does it always have to contain a certain type of data. Weak
typing can have its place, but not in writing COM objects. The `DEFINE CLASS`
command has an `AS` clause that can be added after each parameter. Likewise, you
can add the AS clause after the parameter list, to assign a type to the return
value. It looks like this:

```foxpro
PROCEDURE GetCustomerName(tcCustId AS String) AS String 
```
See the `DEFINE CLASS` topic for more information on these new
features.

Another thing to consider when creating COM servers is to
make sure that your code doesn't attempt to interact with the user. Since a COM
object is instantiated invisibly, there is nowhere to ask the user "Are
you sure?" questions. Make sure your code doesn't call any dialogs. You
also need to turn off the implicit ones. Remember to `SET SAFETY OFF` if you're deleting
or overwriting files. Scan your code carefully. Some statements will surprise
you. `SET HELP TO`, for example, will probably work fine on your development
system but hang on your client's workstation. Why? `SET HELP TO` tries to set
help to the default FoxHelp.CHM&mdash;what you probably mean to do is `SET HELP OFF`.
Visual FoxPro 6.0 introduced a new function, `SYS(2335)`, which prevents your
server from invisibly hanging when a dialog appears. Instead, it generates an
error, which your error handler should be able to record. Then, you can safely
and cleanly terminate your server, if appropriate.

#### Face to Face with COM Interfaces 

But wait, didn't we just say that you shouldn't call any
dialogs in your COM objects? Isn't that an interface? Yes, that's a user
interface; but here we're talking about COM interfaces. A COM interface is how
the client talks to the COM server. It's just a bunch of methods. Of course,
it's not quite that simple, because the interface must meet a stringent binary
definition. Visual FoxPro automatically creates a default COM interface for
you, so this business of dealing with interfaces can be simple.

Of course, interfaces can get more complex, too. First of
all, once you've published your COM component, you cannot change its interface,
because this breaks all of the code based on this component. Instead of
changing an interface, COM, and now VFP 7, supports multiple interfaces,
meaning that you can add interfaces to your control to keep existing
applications happy while providing new features to future applications.
(Of  course, you can also regenerate the
COM control with a different GUID, and change whatever you'd like, because it's
no longer the same control. But that wouldn't lead us into a discussion of multiple
interfaces.) Another example of multiple interfaces is to provide several
different event interfaces that other applications (or different facets of the
same application) can hook into.

An interface is a related group of methods that define a
behavior. There's always a default interface, which is named "I" plus
the name of the class. So an Employee class has a default interface of
IEmployee. Managers are a special kind of employee, so you might define an
interface called IManager that adds or augments features of the IEmployee interface.
Many different interfaces can be added; carrying this theme a little further,
you might have IInfoTechs, IHumanResources, or IAccounting. 

Now, what if you want to implement the interface of a COM
object? VFP has had *implementation inheritance* since it was released.
That's where the PEMs in the class and the code behind them are inherited, and
something we're quite fond of. However, when you `DEFINE CLASS` using the
`IMPLEMENTS` keyword pointing to a  COM
object's interface, COM does not support implementation inheritance. What they
do support is *interface inheritance*, meaning that the public methods are
inherited, without any code behind them&mdash;you get the interface only, and you
supply the code. So using `IMPLEMENTS` gets you interface inheritance, not
implementation inheritance (is this OOP terminology overloaded, or what?).

Without any code, what's the value of interface inheritance?
Plenty! First is polymorphism&mdash;different objects responding differently to the
same commands. Do you use abstract classes (classes that contain PEMs with no
code behind them) as templates? That's like using interface inheritance. And
interface inheritance is absolutely required if you want to venture into the
COM+ world.

This is actually quite a complex topic, and we recommend
that you look at other sources. One that we know is a Hentzenwerke Publishing
book, *What's New in Visual FoxPro 7.0*, by Tamar, Doug, and Kevin
McNeish. There are five chapters devoted to creating COM components,
understanding and implementing COM+, and understanding Web services.

#### EXE or DLL? Only Your Hairdresser Knows for Sure.

>I am not an adventurer by choice but by fate.  
>&mdash;Vincent Van Gogh, 1886 

The Build dialog in the Project Manager includes options for
building both EXEs and DLLs. Both of these apply to COM. (Of course, `BUILD EXE`
also applies to other applications.) An EXE, known as an *Out-of-Process* server, runs in its own memory space, while a DLL,
or *In-Process* server, shares memory
space with the application that instantiates it. You need to create your COM
server as an EXE if you're going to make it available remotely. For other
machines to invoke the COM server on a server machine, the COM server needs to
run on that server machine in its own memory space. 

Another reason for choosing an EXE over a DLL is stability.
If a COM server runs into problems and errors out, hangs, or just plain dies,
an EXE usually crashes its own space, but causes an error only in the client
calling it. A crash in a DLL-based server usually brings down the whole
process&mdash;client, server and all. 

There's a down side to using EXEs, of course. Since the
client application and the server are in different processes, there is a
significant amount of overhead in the interprocess communication that takes
place. Also, if the EXE needs to load from disk and start each time it is
called, there can be a significant wait (called a "latency period")
before the EXE is ready to serve. Under heavy loads, this latency can become a
bottleneck.

A DLL has the opposite benefits, with equivalent
liabilities. Because a DLL is running in the same memory space, the
communication carries far less overhead. But running a FoxPro DLL, especially
inside a FoxPro application, does introduce some tricky issues. The Fox DLL
shares the same VFP runtime with its hosting client, which means that they
share the same `DEFAULT`, `TALK` and other global settings. Be very careful to
preserve and restore any settings you change when crafting a FoxPro DLL. Like a
guest in someone else's house, make sure you put back what you move and disturb
as little as possible. (Of course, that's always good advice when programming.)
Take advantage of scoping and privatizing your behavior, using private data
sessions and minimal variable scope to minimize the effects on the host
application.

The other advantage of DLLs is that they can run within the
Microsoft Transaction Services (MTS in NT 4.0) or Component Services (Windows
2000). These DLLs can be pooled, so that more of them are available to handle
heavy bandwidth demands, and can be kept alive when not in use for rapid
startup. This topic, too, tends to get beyond what we need to cover in a
VFP-specific book, but check the documentation for your particular OS and
Microsoft's online resources for a lot more information on this.

#### Distributing Your COM Server

>Our society distributes itself into Barbarians, Philistines and Populace; and America is just ourselves with the Barbarians quite left out, and the Populace nearly.  
>&mdash;Matthew Arnold, *Culture and Anarchy*, 1869

If you're using VFP 6 or earlier, a COM server can be
bundled up and shipped using the Setup Wizard, just like any other application.
In the second step of the wizard, pick "COM Components" and follow
the prompts to add your servers to the list displayed. In-Process (DLL) servers
have no options, but with Out-of-Process (EXE) servers, you can specify several
options as to how the install should proceed. Check the Help file for more
details.

VFP 7 replaces the Setup Wizard with a VFP-specific version
of InstallShield Express. Check its Help file for more details on how to
install your COM server. 

#### How to Troubleshoot

>People struggled on for years with "troubles," but they almost always succumbed to "complications."  
>&mdash;Edith Wharton, *Ethan Frome*, 1911

Troubleshooting COM components can be a bear because they
don't have a visible interface you can use for direct debugging. A DLL produces
a "Feature not available" error if you attempt to suspend or debug in
the middle of one of its procedures, even if you've instantiated it in the
FoxPro development environment. Our advice: Debug in advance as much as
possible, and set up a robust error handler to dump all of the environmental
information you can find into an error log when an error occurs. That way, even
though live debugging is unavailable, you should have sufficient evidence to
deduce the source of the problem. You should also consider adding a simple
logging feature to your base COM classes (textmerge and the new file-handling
functions are ideal for this), so you can log "Step 1 start", "Step
1 end" if you're in one of those sticky debugging situations where things
just seem to stop.

### COM, DCOM, and COM+

DCOM, or Distributed COM, is simply a term meaning that the
location of the COM server doesn't matter. Termed *location transparency*,
this ability to access a COM server on your local machine, on another machine
on your local network, or on some machine who-knows-where on the Internet, is
what DCOM is. So, what does DCOM give us?

Distributed COM is built into all versions of Windows,
beginning with Windows NT 4.0 and Windows 98 (if you're still using Windows 95,
there's a free download from the Microsoft site). DCOM allows you to call for a
service, using the same terminology you would for any object invocation, but
the service actually runs on another machine! This opens up some great
possibilities for distributed computing&mdash;where a few fast, powerful machines, or
machines with special resources, could provide their services to other clients.
So what's COM+? Well, with the advent of DCOM, the
developers had to roll their own solutions for a number of things, such as
managing all the resources, data transactions and security. Microsoft created
Microsoft Transaction Server as an add-on for Windows NT to provide developers
some relief from writing these things themselves. In this latest incarnation of
COM, COM+ merges COM and MTS, improves on them, and builds them right into the
Windows 2000 and later operating systems.

### But What About .NET?

Microsoft is at it again, developing more acronyms for us to
learn. The latest of these is .NET, the integrated development environment for
creating Internet applications. Does it spell doomsday for COM/COM+? Of course
not. Microsoft knows that software companies have a significant investment in
COM/COM+, so they're not going to yank it out from under them in the near
future. In fact, Microsoft's own .NET Enterprise servers, including SQL Server
2000 and BizTalk Server 2000, have COM/COM+ at their core. Instead of mandating
a move to .NET, Microsoft has made it easy for the two technologies to
co-exist.

How does VFP play in the .NET arena? Pretty well, actually.
Since .NET has XML Web Services at its core, VFP 7 has new features that allow
developers to write and consume Web Services. Visual Studio .NET is Microsoft's
premier toolbox for writing .NET applications, and much has been made of taking
VFP out of the Visual Studio box. This is a Good Thing: We have the best of
both worlds. We can write and consume Web Services, thereby playing in the
future .NET arena, and we can write the "old-style" COM/COM+ objects
(old? didn't we just learn how to write COM objects?), supporting the current
software technologies. .NET has some cool features, one of which is the Common
Language Runtime, or CLR, which replaces the separate C, C++, and VB runtimes.
No, VFP won't take advantage of the CLR or other VS.NET features (which is
another Good Thing, as we would have lost our local database engine and
significant backwards compatibility&mdash;both hallmarks of the FoxPro product). So,
we get to have our cake and eat it, too, taking advantage of .NET when it is
available, but retaining the ability to develop independent, stand-alone
applications. The Fox team has enabled us to be compatible with .NET without
losing features we've come to love. 

### Using VFP in an n-Tier Architecture

Microsoft's recent marketing pitch, COM+, is an application
architecture that uses COM components and the COM interface for all layers of
an n-tier application model. (See "n-Tiers of a Clown" in "Your Server Will Be With You
in a Moment" for more on the n-tier model.) We welcome these developments,
and feel that VFP has a place to play, both as a heavy-duty front-end tool and
as a middle layer serving business rules between the client and the data
services. However, we advise caution before leaping into this new solution.

Before you dive in head-first, you want to make sure that
your application really needs the power of an n-tier solution. While the
architecture seems attractive, we've discovered that the complexity of design,
management and testing of our applications is proportionate to the number of
interfaces we need to support. As more components are introduced into the mix,
it becomes more complex to anticipate and properly code the ability to handle
failures of single components, error passing between layers, and many other
issues.

Once you've determined that your application needs the n-tier model, Visual FoxPro provides a rich array of tools to help you create your COM components.