## When Should You Use the Power Tools? 

<font name="Arial Black" size=7>Always.</font>
Okay, would you believe:

<font name="Arial Black" size=5>Almost Always.</font>
We used to say (and believe) "always" as the
answer to "When should you use the Power Tools?" But some changes,
both in the product and, more importantly, in the development world, mean that
there are some valid reasons to write code by hand. Let's look at what the
Power Tools are, and then we'll come back to the question of when not to use
them.

### What's a Power Tool?

Long, long ago, in a land far away, Xbase was a command-line
language. A not-very-user-friendly dot greeted you on an empty startup screen,
and you were left to your own devices to create screens, reports, menus and
other interface elements. Programmers spent their hours with graph paper,
trying to calculate how many fields could be fit on a page, how many characters
in each prompt. Hours were wasted drawing, erasing and redrawing these
prototype screens, and more hours consumed trying to transfer them from paper
to screen.

Evolution brought primitive tools&mdash;first to reports, then to
menus and screens. Like many of the innovations introduced into the language,
third-party add-on tools were first on the scene, adding desperately needed
features into the product. These third-party tools allowed you to develop a
sample screen, perhaps in a template language, and offered a method to
translate these templates into your Xbase language of choice.

FoxBase was one of the first Xbase languages to add template
generation into the product. The first attempt, with the FoxCode product,
introduced yet another template language and a generator to write FoxBase code.
Although it worked quite well, learning yet another language just to code
screens was a burden, and acceptance was not universal. The FoxPro product
broke new ground, in bringing everything under the FoxPro language's domain.
Design tools built FoxPro tables (in the standard DBF format) and then
generation programs, also written in FoxPro, read these tables and created
executable FoxPro code. Although this may seem like an inefficient and
time-consuming process, in fact, the open nature of the generation process
allowed FoxPro programmers to intervene in the process, customizing the
underlying tables and generation programs to extend the results of the
generated objects in ways that Fox Software, and later, Microsoft, never
anticipated. One of the most famous of these, Ken Levy's GENSCRNX program,
allowed additional capabilities within screen programs, such as screen elements
becoming visible under only certain conditions, or 3-D effects added without
programmer painting.

The overall concept behind the Power Tools is pretty
straightforward. You use a visual design tool to lay out the form, label or
report you want. The tool saves your design into a series of DBF records. These
DBF records can then either be generated into code, in the case of 2.x forms or
menus, or interpreted at runtime, in the case of labels and reports. The open
nature of this design-generate cycle leaves the doors open to innovative
developers who can take the core "engines" and drive them in ways not
anticipated (or perhaps needed) at the time the tools were designed. This idea
of allowing extensibility of the core product in new ways was a key concept
behind FoxPro 2.x, and it continues in Visual FoxPro with its accessible design
storage, user-extensible data structures, and open Wizard and Builder engines.

With Visual FoxPro, Microsoft turned the tables a bit, but
still leaves us with lots of room to customize the process to our own ends. In
the 2.x model, we used built-in objects, placed them on an input or output
form, and then added code to get them to behave the way we wanted them to. We
needed to intercept the generation process to customize the objects beyond the
basic options that were provided for us. In the VFP model, we are not limited
to using the objects that Microsoft wants us to use. Rather, we can create our
own powerful custom controls, pre-programmed to do what we need them to do, and
use them on our forms. We don't need to create our objects by handcrafting
them; they can come from pre-built Visual Class Libraries. We don't even have
to set their basic options ourselves&mdash;we can build our own Wizards to do that.
After creating these objects, we can run our custom Builders on them to tweak
them the way we'd like them. (See the ["Builders and Wizards (and Bears, Oh
My!)"](..\section5\s5c3.md) section, which details these wonderful tools.)

"I hand-coded it myself before, and I'll hand-code it
now," a few diehards out there say. Well, let's see if we can give you a
few more reasons to reconsider your stand...

#### Cross-Platform Transportability

Most VFP developers snicker at the thought of cross-platform
transportability, now that it has become clear that Microsoft intends to
release and support Visual FoxPro on its Win32 platform only. But
cross-platform does not mean all the versions of Windows. The tables of the
Power Tools are not just for the use of the Power Tools, but can be used by
developers as a repository of design information. Having forms, menus and reports
designed with the Power Tools gives us access to their designs, in our FoxPro
programs, so that we can generate the HTML, SGML, XML, or whatever-ML an
application may call for. Power Tools store design metadata, a commodity that
promises to become more valuable over time.

#### Upgradability

There have been numerous versions of Fox to date, and we
hope to see quite a few more. Each upgrade has added capabilities, features,
language enhancements, and has also occasionally required some changes to the
basic structure of some of the Power Tools' tables. This can be performed
automatically as part of the upgrade; but don't expect Microsoft to come out
with a code parser to graze through your volumes of code and try to introduce
new features into it. Processing tables, on the other hand, is far easier. A
Power Tool user will find it easier to get to the next upgrade.

#### Enhancements

There are a number of third-party add-ons (some for sale,
some for free) for Visual FoxPro. Many of them&mdash;new custom visual classes,
business rules managers, Builders, Wizards, and so forth&mdash;expect and perhaps
require your code to be properly encased in the Power Tool format. Don't miss
out on the great work of others. Avoid the 'Not Invented Here' syndrome and
leverage the work of others into delivering the best application for your
clients. See "Resource File" in "Back 'o da Book" to get an
idea of what kind of tools are available.

### So Why Not Use The Power Tools?

>Men have become the tools of their tools.  
>&mdash;Henry David Thoreau 

The ability to build COM components, added to VFP 5, lets
FoxPro play with the big boys. We can build objects that other applications can
just plug in and use. In Service Pack 3 of VFP 6 (a really strange place to
introduce something new and monumental), the Session base class was added. 

Session was born to be the basis for COM components. It's a
lightweight class with a private data session. Session got even better in VFP
7. When it's used for a COM object, its native PEMs are protected by default,
so you decide which of them to expose to the outside world.

What does this have to do with the Power Tools? Well,
Session is one of the base classes that can't be subclassed in the Class
Designer, but can be subclassed in code. On top of that, several other features
(such as specifying COM attributes) added in VFP 7 apply only to code classes.

The result is that, while we still believe that the
Designers are the right place to create your forms and any classes that are
meant for use within VFP, manual construction is your best bet for building COM
components. The good news is that VFP 7 introduced several new tools and
features that make working with classes in PRG files a whole lot easier. Be
sure to check out Document View, shortcuts and bookmarks.

The rest of this section digs into the Power Tools,
including the ones that ease manual construction.