## `SET FORMAT`, Set("Format"), Sys(7)

These commands control the use of format files. `SET FORMAT` lets you specify a format file, while SET("FORMAT") and  SYS(7) tell you the name of the current format file.

### Usage

```foxpro
SET FORMAT TO [ cFileName | ? ]
cFormatFile = SET( "FORMAT" )
cFormatFile = SYS( 7 [, nWorkArea ] )
```

Way back in Xbase history, someone had the bright idea of letting users specify formatting and validation information about fields once, then be able to use that information with the built-in input commands. The result was the format file, a collection of SAYs and GETs, with no READ in sight. You `SET FORMAT` TO such a file (which normally has a .FMT extension), then issue EDIT, APPEND or INSERT. Instead of the default appearance, those commands use the SAYs and GETs to present a formatted screen. It was actually quite a good idea ... at the time.

Once the Screen Builder appeared in FoxPro 2, format files were rendered obsolete. Visual FoxPro drove another nail into the coffin with its OOP Form Designer.

`SET FORMAT` TO some filename specifies the format file to use. `SET FORMAT` TO with no file turns it off. 

Don't bother. Use the Form Designer.

For every action, there's an equal and opposite reaction. If we can specify a format file, there must be a way to find out what it is. This being FoxPro, there are two ways. SET("FORMAT") and SYS(7) are nearly identical. Like so many of the `SET()` functions, SET("FORMAT") is undocumented. Both return the fully qualified path and file name for the format file in the current work area. SYS(7) can look at other work areas as well, if you add the second parameter.

### See Also

[Set](s4g126.md), [Set Clear](s4g129.md)