## Set PDSetup, _GenPD, _PDriver, _PDSetup, Set("PDSetup")

These three system memory variables and one command set up a pretty sophisticated printing system under earlier DOS versions of FoxPro. While they may still be usable in Visual FoxPro, we are hard-pressed to think of why you might want to use them.

### Usage

```foxpro
_GENPD = cGenerator
cGenerator = _GENPD
_PDRIVER = cDriverName
cDriverName = _PDRIVER
_PDSETUP = cSavedSetup
cSavedSetup = _PDSETUP
SET PDSETUP TO cSavedSetup
cSavedSetup = SET("PDSETUP")
```
<table border cellspacing=0 cellpadding=0 width=100%>
<tr>
  <td width=32% valign=top>
  <p><b>Parameter</b></p>
  </td>
  <td width=23% valign=top>
  <p><b>Value</b></p>
  </td>
  <td width=45% valign=top>
  <p><b>Meaning</b></p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width=32% valign=top>
  <p>cGenerator</p>
  </td>
  <td width=23% valign=top>
  <p>Character</p>
  </td>
  <td width=45% valign=top>
  <p>The name of the program to run when creating or changing a printer driver setting.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width=32% valign=top>
  <p>cDriverName</p>
  </td>
  <td width=23% valign=top>
  <p>Character</p>
  </td>
  <td width=45% valign=top>
  <p>The name of the program or C routine (PLB/FLL) built into Genpd.APP used to perform the actual row-by-row, character-by-character printing. PS.PRG was used for PostScript printing, while Driver.PRG was used for all others.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width=32% valign=top>
  <p>cSavedSetup</p>
  </td>
  <td width=23% valign=top>
  <p>Character</p>
  </td>
  <td width=45% valign=top>
  <p>The name of a previously defined printer setup, which could store information on the printer brand and model (and consequently the language), margins, font sizes and orientation. Setting PDSetup to a single blank character brings up the printer driver setup dialog.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
</table>

Using these capabilities within Visual FoxPro is depending on too much backward compatibility, in our opinion. Check out the *Hacker's Guide to Visual FoxPro 3.0* or some of the 2.x references in this book's appendices if you need to transport stuff using these commands and settings to Visual FoxPro; don't even consider using them there.

### See Also

[_ASCIICols](s4g417.md), [_ASCIIRows](s4g417.md), [Report](s4g238.md), [Set Printer](s4g146.md), [Set Resource](s4g276.md), [Version()](s4g119.md)