## `UPDATED()`

`UPDATED()` ostensibly tells you whether any of the data in a form has changed since you last saved it. But it doesn't work right for its purpose.

### Usage

```foxpro
lAnythingNew = UPDATED()
```

Way back in the dark, murky mists of Xbase history, `UPDATED()` was a useful function. It told you whether any of the items in a READ had been changed, so you could, for example, know whether to prompt the user to save changes when he pressed Escape.

In FoxPro 1.0, a cool new function code was added to @GET. FUNCTION "@M" let you specify a list of valid inputs and force the user to choose from the list. With that function code, `UPDATED()` began to lose its shine because simply moving through the list of valid inputs set `UPDATED()` to .T. FoxPro 2 just made things worse&mdash;clicking a button, even an OK or Cancel button, set `UPDATED()` to .T. So did checking or unchecking a check box, or choosing from a list or popup. Most folks wrote their own function to figure out whether a save was needed.

Visual FoxPro's buffering makes all this a lot easier. With `GetNextModified()` and `GETFLDSTATE()`, you can see exactly what's been changed.

InteractiveChange and ProgrammaticChange let you act as soon as a change occurs, and KeyPress together with KeyPreview lets you figure out what the user is actually doing.

We told people to stay away from `UPDATED()` in FoxPro 2.x. Lots of things have changed, but this isn't one of them&mdash;stay away from `UPDATED()`.

### Example

```foxpro
* This is how you should be able to use UPDATED(), but can't
* This code might go in a Cancel button's Click
* Assume FoxPro.H has been included in the form
* Display the standard 'Save your changes (Y/N)' routine
IF UPDATED()
   nResult = MESSAGEBOX("Save changes", MB_YESNO + ;
                        MB_ICONQUESTION + MB_DEFBUTTON1)
   IF nResult = IDYES
      * call the save routine
   ENDIF
ENDIF
```
### See Also

[GetFldState()](s4g395.md), [GetNextModified()](s4g502.md), [InteractiveChange](s4g370.md), [KeyPress](s4g374.md), [KeyPreview](s4g374.md), [ProgrammaticChange](s4g370.md)