## `CREATE CONNECTION`, `MODIFY CONNECTION`,  `RENAME CONNECTION`, `DELETE CONNECTION`

These commands let you maintain connections to remote data sources as part of a database.

### Usage

```foxpro
CREATE CONNECTION [ ConnectionName | ? ]
     [ DATASOURCE cDataSource
      [ USERID cUserId ] [ PASSWORD cPassWord ]
      [ DATABASE cDatabase ] ]
     | CONNSTRING cConnectionString ]
MODIFY CONNECTION [ ConnectionName | ? ]
DELETE CONNECTION [ ConnectionName ]
RENAME CONNECTION OldName TO NewName
```

`CREATE CONNECTION` lets you either create a connection totally in code or start the Connection Designer. If you include a connection name and either the DATASOURCE or CONNSTRING clause, the connection is created and stored without opening the Designer. Including DATASOURCE or CONNSTRING without a name brings up a Save dialog to specify a name. Anything less than that brings up the Connection Designer. Named connections can be used both in views and in establishing SQL pass-through connections. See "Your Server Will Be With You in a Moment" in Section 1 for more information about connections. In VFP 7, if the database has `Database Events` turned on, the BeforeCreateConnection and AfterCreateConnection events fire.

`MODIFY CONNECTION` opens the Connection Designer and lets you edit the specified connection. The BeforeModifyConnection and AfterModifyConnection events of the database fire if `Database Events` are turned on.

DELETE and `RENAME CONNECTION` are for maintenance of connections in a database. They do what their names say, and fire the BeforeDeleteConnection, AfterDeleteConnection, BeforeRenameConnection, and AfterRenameConnection events if `Database Events` are turned on.

### Example

```foxpro
CREATE CONNECTION MyAccessConnection ;
  DATASOURCE "MS Access 7.0"
MODIFY CONNECTION MyAccessConnection
RENAME CONNECTION MyAccessConnection TO MoreDignifiedConnection
DELETE CONNECTION MoreDignifiedConnection
```
### See Also

[AfterCreateConnection](s4g838.md), [AfterDeleteConnection](s4g838.md), [AfterModifyConnection](s4g847.md), [AfterRenameConnection](s4g853.md), [BeforeCreateConnection](s4g838.md), [BeforeDeleteConnection](s4g838.md), [BeforeModifyConnection](s4g847.md), [BeforeRenameConnection](s4g853.md), [Create SQL View](s4g353.md), [DBGetProp()](s4g350.md), [Display Connections](s4g428.md)