## `FOUND()`

This function reports on the success of various search commands. It's affected by LOCATE, CONTINUE, SEEK, `SEEK()`, `INDEXSEEK()`, relations and the antique FIND command.

### Usage

```foxpro
lFoundMatch = FOUND( [ cAlias | nWorkArea ] )
```

`FOUND()` is maintained separately for each work area and always reflects the most recent search there. If you need to hang on to the result, it's wise to store it to a variable before proceeding.

LOCATE, CONTINUE, SEEK, `SEEK()`, `INDEXSEEK()` and FIND all affect `FOUND()` pretty much the same way. You issue one of those commands, and `FOUND()` returns .T. if the command was successful and .F. otherwise. (Interestingly, `KEYMATCH()` doesn't update `FOUND()`.) On the whole, we think it's a better choice to check IF `FOUND()` after a search than to use IF `EOF()`, as many folks who've been using Xbase for a long time do. Not only is IF `FOUND()` easier to read and understand, but it also avoids any possible issues with a search using `SET NEAR` or one that's limited in some way and, therefore, doesn't move the record pointer to end-of-file. The subtle case is using `FOUND()` with a relation. When a temporal relation has been established (with `SET RELATION`), you can check FOUND("the child alias") to determine whether a parent record has any children. If it does, FOUND("the child alias") returns .T. You can use this in a filter or FOR clause to affect only parents with child records.

### Example

```foxpro
USE Employee ORDER Last_Name
SEEK "FULLER"
? FOUND()       && Returns .T.
SEEK "HOSSENPFEFFER"
? FOUND()       && Returns .F.

USE Customer
USE Orders IN 0 ORDER Customer_I
SET RELATION TO Customer_Id INTO Orders
* look at all customers without orders
BROW FOR NOT FOUND("Orders")
```
### See Also

[Continue](s4g042.md), [Find](s4g267.md), [IndexSeek()](s4g267.md), [KeyMatch()](s4g269.md), [Locate](s4g042.md), [Seek](s4g267.md), [Seek()](s4g267.md), [Set Near](s4g268.md), [Set Relation](s4g084.md)