## `DISPLAY DATABASE`, `LIST DATABASE`

These commands show you the contents of the current database, listing all tables and views, their fields, indexes, relations, and other properties, but not stored procedures.

### Usage

```foxpro
DISPLAY | LIST DATABASE
        [ TO PRINTER [ PROMPT ]
          | TO [ FILE ] cFileName [ ADDITIVE ] ]
        [ NOCONSOLE ]
```

Most of the information shown in the listing is available from either `ADBOBJECTS()` or `DBGetProp()`. However, the index information can only be extracted by opening the individual tables and using the `TAG()`, `KEY()` and other index functions.

This means there's one case where you'll want to parse the output of `LIST DATABASE`&mdash;when a table is trashed and you can't open it to find index information. Even then, it doesn't give you everything you need, just the tag name and whether or not it's a candidate key. A better solution is to use the GENDBC utility provided with Visual FoxPro in the first place&mdash;it creates a program which, when run, re-creates your database. We recommend you make a habit of running it against a database every time you change its structure. Call it insurance. (Be forewarned: In VFP 3 and VFP 5, we know of at least one case where GENDBC can't provide you a perfect replica. Adding a FOR condition to a primary key is reasonably complex and GENDBC doesn't handle it right.)

These commands are fairly forgiving. If you issue them without an `OPEN DATABASE`, you're prompted to choose one.

In VFP 3, the query that produces a view sometimes gets cut off in the listing produced by this command. You can see the problem by opening the TasTrade sample database and issuing `DISPLAY DATABASE`. Then, check the *SQL lines for the views. The problem appears to be fixed in later versions.

### Example

```foxpro
OPEN DATA TasTrade
LIST DATABASE TO DATLIST.OUT NOCONSOLE
MODI COMM DATLIST.Out  && leave wordwrap off
ERASE DATLIST.Out
```
### See Also

[ADBObjects()](s4g284.md), [Candidate()](s4g266.md), [DBGetProp()](s4g350.md), [Descending()](s4g266.md), [Display and List](s4g303.md), [For()](s4g266.md), [Key()](s4g266.md), [Primary()](s4g266.md), [Relation()](s4g425.md), [Tag()](s4g266.md), [Target()](s4g425.md)