## Sys(3004), Sys(3005), Sys(3006)

These functions are relevant only if you need to deal with localized versions of applications, something we have no experience with. When you want FoxPro to talk to, say, the French version of Excel via OLE, you have to tell OLE what language you're sending the commands in.

### Usage

```foxpro
cLocale = SYS( 3004 )
cResult = SYS( 3005, nLocaleId )
cResult = SYS( 3006, nLanguageId )
```

SYS(3004) tells you what language OLE currently expects. SYS(3005) lets you change that language. Its nLocaleId parameter is the same as the cLocale return value of SYS(3004) except for the data type. Seems pretty dumb for one to return character while the other expects numeric, but we've noticed that something in the SYS() engine seems to always prefer character returns.

SYS(3006) is a little more complex and is not for the faint-hearted. nLanguageId is a code based on both the language and the sort order. We don't think it's an accident that the codes are not included in Help. This is the kind of stuff usually only C programmers mess with. We went looking for them and eventually found them in the Developer's Library buried in information on the Win32 Software Development Kit. Microsoft recommends you switch these settings using DefOLELCID instead. We're in pretty much over our heads here, so we're inclined to go along with them.

It's pretty odd to have SYS() functions that actually change something, not just return information, but we suspect the idea here was to bury these where only the folks who really need them would find them.

Both SYS(3005) and SYS(3006) return the empty string.

### Example

```foxpro
? SYS(3004)   && Returns 1033, the code for English
```
### See Also

[DefOLELCID](s4g652.md), [Set Collate](s4g068.md)