## Label

The Label control is a more modern version of the @ ... SAY command, with added features that allow its participation in the event loop. 

<table>
<tr>
  <td width="25%" valign="top">
  <p><b>Property</b></p>
  </td>
  <td width="14%" valign="top">
  <p><b>Value</b></p>
  </td>
  <td width="61%" valign="top">
  <p><b>Purpose</b></p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="25%" valign="top">
  <p>AutoSize</p>
  </td>
  <td width="14%" valign="top">
  <p>Numeric</p>
  </td>
  <td width="61%" valign="top">
  <p>Tells the Label control to resize itself automatically to fit the text specified with Caption.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="25%" valign="top">
  <p>Caption</p>
  </td>
  <td width="14%" valign="top">
  <p>Character</p>
  </td>
  <td width="61%" valign="top">
  <p>Up to 256 characters to be displayed. Preceding a character with &quot;\&lt;&quot; causes that character to act as an &quot;access&quot; or &quot;hot&quot; key, moving focus to the next control beyond the label in tab order. This is a neat solution for providing accelerator keys to those controls lacking a Caption.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="25%" valign="top">
  <p>WordWrap</p>
  </td>
  <td width="14%" valign="top">
  <p>Numeric</p>
  </td>
  <td width="61%" valign="top">
  <p>Causes the Caption text to be wrapped onto multiple lines with a fixed Width property. Even with AutoSize set .T., the Height of the Label control does not change to accommodate the wrapped text.</p>
  </td>
 </tr>
</table>

While similar to the @ ... SAYs of old, the label is a full participant in the event loop with MouseMove, MouseUp, MouseDown, Click and Drag-related events. Like most text-based controls, it has a whole slew of properties that can be modified at runtime, including a bunch of Font properties: FontName, FontSize, FontOutline, FontStrikeThru, FontThis and FontThat. Unlike the @ ...SAYs of old, it does not require a nuclear physicist to calculate the location of the old text, erase it, and place new text in its place at runtime&mdash;just change the value of Caption, and the control handles it automatically.

Label does lack some features it might be nice to have in a read-only control, such as the ability to bind to an underlying data source. Most solutions we've seen involve using Text boxes with their colors tweaked and Enabled set to .F.

### Example

```foxpro
oForm.AddObject("lblMyText","Label")
WITH oForm.lblMyText
  .Top = 20
  .AutoSize = .T.
  .FontName = "Times New Roman"
  .FontSize = 18
  .FontItalic = .T.
  .Caption = "Hello, World!"
  .ForeColor = 4259584
  .Visible = .T.
ENDWITH
```

### See Also

[AutoSize](s4g478.md), [Caption](s4g482.md), [TextBox](s4g548.md), [WordWrap](s4g538.md)