## Style

This property is a prime example of polymorphism at work. Six different controls have it, and it has five different interpretations.

### Usage

```foxpro
oObject.Style = nStyle
nStyle = oObject.Style
```

For combos, Style determines whether you get a drop-down list or a real combo (called a "drop-down combo") that lets you type in new data. With a drop-down combo, new items aren't automatically added to the combo's list. You'll have to handle them in code&mdash;see DisplayValue for details. Combos are the only control where the choices are 0 and 2. We do wonder what they have in mind for Style = 1.

For check boxes and option buttons, Style distinguishes graphical objects from textual ones. Unless Style is 1&ndash;graphical, any pictures you specify are ignored, as is the Hot Tracking setting for SpecialEffect.

Style for command buttons lets you make some of them "invisible"&mdash;one way to create a "hot spot" on a form. Although invisible buttons have no physical presence on a form, they can still gain focus, complete with a focus rectangle. Consider setting TabStop to .F. for invisible buttons to make them mouse-only. 

Beginning in VFP 7, separators have the Style property. In this case, it determines whether they are 0&ndash;invisible (the default) or 1&ndash;display as a ruled line. Now that we have this option, we doubt we'll ever be using invisible separators again. To our annoyance, the new setting is only effective at runtime. At design-time, separators are just as elusive as they've ever been.

Finally, there's one backward-compatibility choice here. Set a text box's Style to 1 if you want it to behave more or less like an @ ... SAY in FoxPro 2.x. We haven't found a way to refresh these text boxes (when the value is an expression) other than reassigning the original value. Guess they really are like @ ... SAYs.

### Example

```foxpro
* Normally, you'll set this property at design-time. But let's
* change a combo to a drop-down list.
ThisForm.cboMyCombo.Style = 2
```
### See Also

[@...Say](s4g175.md), [CheckBox](s4g485.md), [ComboBox](s4g489.md), [CommandButton](s4g484.md), [DisabledPicture](s4g496.md), [DisplayValue](s4g481.md), [DownPicture](s4g496.md), [OptionButton](s4g523.md), [Picture](s4g496.md), [Separator](s4g535.md), [SpecialEffect](s4g628.md), [TextBox](s4g548.md), [Valid](s4g413.md)