## Hardware and Software Recommendations

### (From a group of hardware haters)

We hate hardware. Let's get that one fact out from the
beginning. IRQs and memory locations, obscure settings and incompatibilities
are the bane of our existence. We're FoxPro hackers, not wire weenies, and it
saddens us that FoxPro requires any hardware at all&mdash;a virtual machine would be
so much nicer to work on! However, this is the real world, and it's a fact.

In the years since we first wrote this section for the *Hacker's Guide to Visual FoxPro 3*, much
has changed, and yet much remains the same. We've seen a number of flavors of
Windows ship, from Windows 95 to the just-released (as of this writing) Windows
XP.

### Hardware

"The faster and the bigger, the better" is a
pretty good rule for FoxPro's use of hardware. More CPU power and faster clock
speeds mean faster performance; swifter video performance makes FoxPro shine;
and a well-tuned operating system is icing on the cake. However ...

>Moderation in all things.  
>&mdash;Thornton Wilder, *Our Town*

A real fast processor isn't worth much if it's right only
98.997979% of the time. Blazing video performance that occasionally blazes into
an inferno is useless. Whizzy new CD-ROMs ain't worth a darn if they sometimes
spit out your still-spinning disk when you need to read them. (Ted had a
"compatible" machine that actually did this.) They don't call it the
"bleeding edge" for nothing. Unproven, version 1.0 technology is not
the kind of thing that we bet the mortgage on, and you should probably consider
these factors yourself. With proper backup and a consideration of the risks
involved, investment in new technologies pays off for many hearty pioneers, but
make sure when you're purchasing hardware that there is a conscious decision
when to buy a workhorse and when to buy a new thoroughbred colt.

>It's always something.  
>&mdash;Roseanne Rosannadanna

Our cut on things: Read the books, read the magazines, ask
online. Make sure that what you're purchasing is compatible, especially if a
client is going to be running it.

At a minimum, Visual FoxPro claims it requires a Pentium
processor and 64 megabytes of RAM. That's pretty much the minimum configuration
for Windows 2000, too, and Windows XP requires a Pentium or equivalent
processor running at 300 MHz or better with 128 MB of RAM. Obviously, the
faster the processor, the better the Fox will run. With machines available at 1
GHz and faster, it shouldn't be difficult to find inexpensive hardware to
develop on. As far as RAM goes, more is better. A minimum is 128 MB, though 256
MB gives good performance.

Your users might be able to get away with the minimum
configuration, but be careful cutting corners. Test your app on one of their
machines regularly to ensure that the app will run acceptably on their
hardware.

#### Hard Disks

>You can never be too rich, too thin, or have too much hard drive space.  
>&mdash;Anonymous

Hard disk space is an issue for both developers and end
users. A full installation of Visual FoxPro requires an enormous amount of
space, easily half a gigabyte. Disk space is cheap; buy the biggest disk you
can. Even a 10 GB drive on a laptop isn't always roomy enough for a machine
dedicated to FoxPro development. All that data to process can eat up space
quickly!

One tip: If you're installing the common components onto a
FAT drive, each file will take up a minimum of one disk cluster. Clusters are
sized based on the total capacity of the partition divided by 65535. So the
bigger the partition, the more space is wasted for the dinky bitmaps, cursors
and icons supplied with the package. Consider formatting the partition as FAT32
if you are running Windows 98, or using NTFS under Windows NT/2000/XP to
minimize the wasted space.

A second hard disk issue you need to be aware of is that
Visual FoxPro's installation requires not only space on the volume where you
want to install Visual FoxPro, but also free space on the drive where Windows
is installed. Visual FoxPro comes with updated DLLs and Windows support files
that will be installed in the main Windows and System subdirectories. These can
take significant space. Obviously, overwriting these files will also require
appropriate rights in the case of a network install.

In that same vein, use the Custom option of the Visual
FoxPro install to determine which portions of Visual FoxPro may be reinstalled,
uninstalled, or ignored. If you are installing workstation copies on multiple
developers' machines, you might want only the network administrative copy to be
a full copy, while each developer can get by with a smaller subset.

For end users, besides the space for your application and
its data files, you need to plan on over 4 MB for the runtime VFP7*.* files. 

#### Video

A good video card with plenty of resolution and memory is a
necessity for working with Visual FoxPro. What with dozens of toolbars, as well
as property sheets, tabbed options dialogs, drop-downs, OLE objects, OCX
Outline controls and what-have-you, a powerful video card can make an enormous
difference in your productivity. 256 colors is the minimum, with many running
in High Color (24 bit) and True Color (32 bit) modes. The minimum resolution
we'd even consider for running Visual FoxPro is 800 x 600, provided we're
working on a system designed for 640 x 480. A good working ratio is at least
one resolution higher than the system being designed, and even better (given
good eyes) is the highest resolution that the hardware will support. 

Why one resolution larger than the screens you're designing,
you ask? It's not too hard to place a full-sized 800 x 600 form on a 1024 x 768
screen, with enough room to access the necessary tools like the Property Sheet
(about 200 pixels wide, placed to the side of the Form Designer) and the
Command Window. On the other hand, if you try to edit an 800 x 600 form in an
800 x 600 mode screen, you'll spend your life pushing scrollbars, moving dialog
boxes, and cursing at Visual FoxPro. If you want to be able to interact with
all parts of a form while you're designing it, with the appropriate toolbars
and property sheets also visible, you'll want to use at least one resolution
higher than you're designing for (design "6 by 4" forms in "8 by
6", design "8 by 6" forms in "10 by 7" and so on).
Even better, design two resolutions higher: Design 800 x 600 forms in 1280 x
1024 . Stop us if you've heard this before&mdash;more is better.

While we're on the subject of video, the monitor is the
other element that makes a huge difference. 1024 x 768 or greater resolution is
impossible to read (at least with our aging eyes) on a small 14" or
15" monitor. Seventeen inches is the least we'll work on, and 19",
20" or even 21" monitors make viewing an absolute pleasure. You're
going to spend an awful lot of your life in front of this tube&mdash;do yourself a
favor and get the largest and clearest display you can afford. Even the new
flat-screen monitors are coming down in price, and the benefit is that they
don't take up your entire desktop. For laptops, the newer 14.1" displays
handle 1024 x 768 quite well.

A caution, however. While we feel that justifying the costs
of a large monitor is a no-brainer for a developer, it may not be as easy for
dozens or hundreds of operators using your application. Just as with processing
speed, make sure that you check out your application frequently on one of the
lower-powered, lower-resolution machines it will run on, to ensure that the
interface is easy to use for the operators as well.

### Operating Systems

You have four choices for an operating system on which to
run Visual FoxPro for Windows, and you shouldn't be surprised that they all
have the name "Windows." They are Windows 98, Windows NT, Windows
2000, and Windows XP. We suppose you can add Windows ME, if you're brave. Here
are our somewhat biased opinions.

#### Windows 98&mdash;The OS for the Rest of Us?

Windows 98 is looking more and more like a legacy operating
system; however, you'll find that many corporations are still running it. We
wouldn't want to develop on it, as it's not as stable as its successors, but
VFP runs just fine on it. Depending on your situation, it might still be your
only option for the client operating system.

#### Windows NT&mdash;Nice Try

When Microsoft planned the FoxPro DevCon '95 in January,
they hoped to show a late beta or perhaps even an early release copy of Visual
FoxPro. Alas, a miracle did not come to pass, and instead they showed a late
alpha/early beta copy of Visual FoxPro that crashed in nearly every session.
But because they were running under NT, a simple double-click of the Visual
FoxPro icon was all that was necessary to restart the app&mdash;NT cleaned up the
mess very nicely, all by itself. That alone sold us. This is why we develop on
Windows NT or a successor, because developers tend to try things that might
(will?) crash their machines.

Windows NT is solid, but that robustness comes at a price.
Performance is comparable to Windows 98 only on the higher-end processors, and
NT demands more RAM than 98 (of course, as a developer, you're hopefully
running a higher-end machine). In addition, managing the Windows NT domain
model, setting up security or maintaining a large network does not come easy.
For more than a few machines, the assistance of a Microsoft Certified System
Engineer becomes less of a luxury and more of a necessity.

One caveat&mdash;ensure that your machine is *100%* NT compatible. This was more of an issue when we wrote the
last edition of this book, but if you have clients running on old hardware,
this can really bite you. The Hardware Compatibility List (HCL) is available
from a number of Microsoft sources, and you should make sure that *all* of your peripherals are listed.
Unlike DOS and earlier Windows incarnations, if it's not listed, it probably
won't work. We've spent more than a few hours trying to shoehorn NT onto a
machine that "should be" able to run NT, but some little part,
perhaps a serial port or a video card, just wasn't compatible enough. Don't
frustrate yourself. Only attempt upgrading to NT if the machine is *really* compatible.

#### Windows 2000

Windows 2000 improves upon Windows NT. Of course, it needs a
little more RAM, a little faster processor. But you get a little more
stability, and a few more features. Performance is a little better (though
booting still seems takes as long or longer than the other operating systems).
Of course, none of your earlier Windows drivers will work on Windows 2000, so
some older hardware is just not supported (nearly anything you buy today is
supported), and upgrading a machine from 98, NT, or even ME can be an Internet
scavenger hunt for drivers.

#### Windows ME

For a while, this was the operating system of choice to be
factory installed on most new computers. Most developers immediately wipe it
out to put on Windows 2000 (and then go on the Internet scavenger hunt for
Win2K hardware drivers that don't ship with the Windows ME machines). Windows
ME was designed for home use, and incorporates lots of cool things like digital
video, easy networking and lots of support for the Internet. Tight security and
robustness was not a part of this operating system's design. 

#### Windows XP

Windows XP comes in three flavors: the Home edition, the
Professional edition, and a special 64-bit version for technical workstations
(we don't think you'll see that one too much). Windows XP launched on October
24, 2001, while we were writing this book. Some people love the new features,
one of which is ClearType for LCD screens, which makes 1600 x 1200 very
readable on a 15" notebook display. It also is supposed to be
"crash-free" (yes, they really say that on their Web site), and has
plenty of support for huge hardware configurations.

There's one real drawback. It's called Windows Activation.
This is Microsoft's brilliant scheme to prevent softlifting, or software
piracy. Upon installation, after typing in the product key, you're assigned an
installation ID. It's based on information about the hardware configuration
being passed into a one-way hash, and coming up with the installation ID.
(Microsoft guarantees this ID contains no private information.) 

This installation ID is automatically sent to Microsoft if
you have an Internet connection or modem; otherwise you must call it in within
30 days or only the activation portion of the operating system will work.
Successive installations for this product key calculate the installation ID,
and if the hardware is identical or "similar" (as in, you've added or
removed some hardware), XP will activate again and run just fine. It will
squawk only if the hardware is substantially different.

Developers swap out hardware with incredible frequency,
sometimes swapping out enough hardware to make it look like a different
machine. Microsoft's answer is that you simply need to call and get another
installation ID, and you're on your way. Not something we'd like to do several
times in a week for testing various hardware, or several times between 1 and 3
a.m. (the best hours for development).  
#### DOS, Windows 3.x, Warp-OS/2, Linux, Palm, WinCE, and the Mac OSes

No doubt, someone's out there, even as you read these words,
oh, faithful reader, picking up their poison pen to write us a flaming,
screaming, bombastic letter on how we have ignored the most powerful operating
system in both the known and unknown universes: (fill in the blank). This next
paragraph is for them. You can skip it.

We know. It's not our fault. VFP 5.0 and later run on 32-bit
Windows and that's all. No dice. Sorry. Call Microsoft.

#### So, Where Should You Want to Go Today?

We do call this section "Recommendations," so we
should name our operating system of choice. Well, life is not always that easy.
Della runs Windows 2000 Professional, and has one machine
that dual boots into Windows 98 for testing (and for some old software and
hardware that isn't supported by Win2K). Doug runs Windows 2000 Server, and
likes it, although he pines for the DOS days every time he waits for it to
restart (ain't that the truth!). Tamar also runs Windows 2000 Professional on
her development machines. Her test machine runs NT4, but soon it may be
upgraded to Windows XP, in her elusive free time. Noted for liking the
simplicity of running the same operating system on all machines, she's feeling
a little less stubborn about it these days. Ted runs a heterogeneous network of
Win2K Pro (x3), WinNT 4.0 Server (IIS and SQL Server Development), Win2K Server
(Intranet), Win95 (one print server, one utility terminal), and Win2KPro on two
laptops.

So what should you choose? 

It does depend to some extent on your client base: If they
are all running Windows 9X (or NT), you probably should be, too, or at least
have one machine available and used regularly that squawks if you are writing
software your clients can't run. 

For a development machine, Windows 2000 wins hands down.
Win2K Professional works fine if licensing is a problem.

What about Windows XP? As
we've shown you, none of us have upgraded to WinXP yet. Why? It probably has
something to do with it shipping while we were writing this book, and every
experienced developer knows not to change the configuration of a working
development machine in the midst of a project. It also has to do with the
experienced developer's wait-and-see attitude of hearing the experiences of
other developers who like to live on the edge. We've heard things ranging from
"VFP runs the best on WinXP," to "XP is a bad nightmare
added on to Win2K, primarily an advertisement for Microsoft services like MSN,
Messenger, Media Player and Passport." It's new enough that it hasn't
really proven itself in the marketplace yet. Few corporations seem to find a
compelling reason to upgrade. But they will, 'cause Microsoft ain't shipping
anything else. We're all cautious, waiting until
at least the first Hot-Fix or Service Pack, which, as of this writing, hasn't
happened yet. 

BUT, if your new whiz-bang box comes from the manufacturer
(OEM) with Windows XP on it, you'll likely want to stay with it. Microsoft and
their hardware vendors are constantly innovating new standards, and you'll find
that new machines may be incompatible, or they won't have drivers for legacy
(last week's) operating systems. Stick with WinXP if you get it. If you get
WinME or Win98SE from the manufacturer, you could be in for compatibility
nightmares&mdash;or at the very least, an Internet scavenger hunt trying to find
drivers. (Della's laptop, shipped with Windows ME, needed nine separate files
from several Web sites, and 26 reboots to install them, to get to Win2K
compatibility.) Insist on Win2K or WinXP from the factory.

### "Oil Change, Tune-up and a Freemanize, please"

If you've run computers for a while, you recognize they need
regular maintenance. The case needs to be opened yearly and the dust blown out.
Backups should be done regularly to prevent loss in case of hardware failure
("regularly" means daily to weekly, not quarterly to annually). Hard
disks need to be defragmented&mdash;perhaps weekly. Directories storing temp files
should be purged. But here's one you may not have considered:

Format your hard drive regularly.

"What!?" you scream. "It took me days to
install all this stuff and now you want me to blow it all away?"

Yup. The Freeman treatment (named in honor of Dan Freeman, a
Prince Among Men, and guru extraordinaire) is the only reliable cure we've
found for all those little aches and pains: The Registry that just doesn't seem
right anymore. The weird DLLs with names you can't fathom. The bloat of the
System directory to hundreds of megabytes.

Blow it all away.

Radical as the idea seemed to us at first, it does make some
sense. Developers who install, test and remove a bunch of stuff from their
machines are likely to get machines that bog down after a while. Downloading
lots of goodies from the Internet and installing beta packages ensures that
some "stuff" gets left lying around on your hard drive. Finally, the
occasional misbehaving application will overwrite a key system file with an
older or less stable one, and that's it&mdash;you're out of business.

But doesn't that take a lot of time? Sure. But utilities
like Ghost or DriveImage make this process much less painful. First, get a good
installation (maybe the one that came from the manufacturer), and make an
image. Then, install all the software you need. Make another image. Don't
forget all the tools you can't live without (WinZip comes to mind). Maybe even
a couple more iterations. Then, when Freeman day comes, you don't really
reformat the hard drive; instead, you restore the appropriate image, then
install whatever else you need to, and find your data backups (which not only
include your development work, but also extremely important data like your
address book and Internet bookmarks). Plan for the inevitable. Log the files
you install on your machine. Keep a network directory available with the
"goodies" you can't live without. Get a serious backup device for the
stuff you need to restore regularly: digital tape, ZIP, Jaz and SysQuest are
worth considering. Archive the CDs with your key development tools on them.
And, of course, make lots of backups.