## "It's a Feature, Not a Bug"

It's not surprising that a language with as many different
roots as FoxPro has a number of odd behaviors&mdash;things that make you say
"hmmm." Some of them, of course, are bugs. But this section is
dedicated to those that really aren't bugs&mdash;the ones for which there's a
legitimate explanation. You'll also find a number of these items in the
Reference section. Often, you'll find a design icon next to them.

### We'll Continue to Try

Comments and continued lines can get you in trouble. On the
whole, the trouble isn't as severe as it used to be (before VFP 5), but you can
still get yourself in trouble.

The problem comes up when you put the continuation
";" after a comment. The next line is still considered part of the
comment, even if it doesn't start with a "\*". So, the following:

```foxpro
* This is the comment before the command ;
SELECT Something FROM SomeWhere INTO SomeOne
```
is actually treated as a comment. The query never executes.

Personally we like to put a "\*" at the beginning
of each line of a comment, but there is a situation in which we find the above
behavior pretty handy. Sometimes, we need to comment out a command for testing
purposes or because we've replaced it with a new version. If the command is
continued onto multiple lines, it's sufficient to just stick a "\*" in
front of the first line. Of course, starting in VFP 5, it's easy enough to
highlight, right-click, and choose Comment, too.

In VFP 3 and FoxPro 2.x, there's another situation where
continuation can get you in trouble. You can't put in-line comments on a
continued line. That is, lines like:

```foxpro
SELECT Something  ;  && here's the fields
   FROM SomeWhere ;  && and the table 
   INTO SomeOne      && put it here
```
fail because FoxPro just drops the ";" and
concatenates the whole thing into a single line. This behavior was changed in
VFP 5 to our great relief.

### But There Didn't Used to Be a Syntax Error There!

When people started running existing applications in VFP 5,
lots of them started seeing syntax errors in code that had been running for
years. The code hadn't changed, so what was going on?

Way back in Xbase history days, someone decided that you
should be able to put comments on the same line as the structured programming
commands without having to use the comment indicator. That is, you could write:

```foxpro
IF x<3   Fewer than three remain
   ...
ENDIF
```
The rule applied to each of the components of the branching
and looping commands (`IF`, `DO CASE`, `DO WHILE`, `FOR` and `SCAN`). In fact, we have
little doubt it was really set up this way so you could write stuff like the
following (by the way, the dots used to be required around the Boolean logical
operators `.AND.`, `.NOT.` and `.OR.`):

```foxpro
DO WHILE .NOT. EOF()
   * process records
ENDDO WHILE .NOT. EOF()
```
It looks real nice, but it turned out to cause a rather nasty,
subtle problem. When FoxPro parsed one of these lines, it stopped as soon as it
reached something syntactically incorrect. That's right, as soon as the parser
found a syntax error, it figured it had a comment and gave up. Consider, for
example:

```foxpro
IF x<3 .AND y>7
```
As far as versions of FoxPro through VFP 3 are concerned,
that line only checks whether x is less than 3. The second part of the
condition was totally ignored.

VFP 5 changed the rules. You're still allowed to include
comments without an indicator on lines that don't have any executable code
(like `ENDDO`, `ENDIF`, `DO CASE` and so on), but if a line contains code (like `IF` or
`DO WHILE`), the whole line is checked. Since we think the original design
decision was terrible, we're delighted by the change. Anything to help root out
stubborn hidden bugs is welcomed.

By the way, the parser got stricter in other ways as well.
Used to be that extra right parenthesis at the end of an expression were
ignored. No more. Starting in VFP 7, spaces are no longer allowed to separate
variables in `LOCAL`, `PUBLIC`, `PRIVATE`, `LPARAMETERS`, or `PARAMETERS` statements (for
example, `LOCAL MyVar1 MyVar2` is now a no-no). In general, from VFP
5 forward, the compiler does a better job of finding syntax errors and ensuring
that you're running the code you think you're running.

### The Single Letter Blues

On the whole, the designers of Visual FoxPro have done a
tremendous job marrying object-orientation to Xbase. But there are places where
the marriage seems a little rocky. The use of single-letter identifiers is one
of them.

Traditionally, the letters A through J are alternate names
for the first 10 work areas. (When the number of work areas went up to 25, Fox
Software didn't extend this convention. It's just as well&mdash;they'd have a heckuva
time finding 32,767 different characters to represent the work areas in Visual
FoxPro.) In addition, the letter M was reserved to indicate that what followed
was a memory variable. 

So, how would this cause you any trouble? Well, what if you
have a table named C.DBF? When you open it with USE C, you'd expect it to have
the alias of "C", right? Only if you're really lucky. Because
"C" is reserved for the third work area, the only way C.DBF will have
an alias of "C" is if you open it in the third work area. Otherwise,
it'll have an alias of the work area it's opened in ("A" through
"J" if it's opened in one of the first 10 work areas, or
"W" followed by the work area number if not). So, when you use code
like `SELECT C` to select the table, you'll really be selecting the third work
area, which may have an entirely different table open or no table open at all.

OOP makes it even worse. Object-orientation uses the same
type of "dot" notation that fields in tables do to spell out the
complete name of an object, like `frmMyForm.grdMainGrid.colName.txtName`. So
what's the problem? There is none, unless you try to use one of the letters A-J
or M for the name of an object. Code like the following:

```foxpro
a=CreateObject("form")
a.Caption="My Form"
```
is doomed to failure. You can create the form, but the
assignment blows up on you as VFP goes looking for a field named Caption in the
first work area. 

Of course, single-letter variable and table names are a
lousy idea anyway (most of the time&mdash;we're still fond of variables like x, y, z,
and o for quick and dirty testing), so the workaround for this isn't terribly
painful. It's like the old joke&mdash;"Doctor, it hurts when I do
this."&mdash;"Then don't do that." Use names longer than one character
and you'll never run into this problem.

### Why Won't You Validate Me?

Here's a behavior that drove people nuts in FoxPro 2.x and,
even though the whole context surrounding it has changed in Visual FoxPro, it
continues to drive people nuts. 

Say your user is entering a new record and is sitting on a
field that requires validation. After entering bad data for that field, but
before moving focus to another field, the user clicks the Save button on your
toolbar or chooses Save from the menu. Whoosh&mdash;the data is saved, including the
bad data. What happened?

In VFP, as in FoxPro 2.x, the Valid routine for a text field
doesn't execute until focus leaves that field. Clicking a button on a toolbar
or picking a menu item doesn't change focus and therefore doesn't fire the
Valid method or the LostFocus method, of course. (In fact, a toolbar never has
focus, which lets you do pretty cool things.)

Why does it behave this way? Because we want it to. It feels
wrong in this situation, but suppose the toolbar or menu item the user chose
was Select All or Paste. We sure wouldn't want the focus to change (and the
`Valid` and `LostFocus` methods to fire) in that case. 

So how do we make sure the data gets validated? Simple&mdash;make
sure focus changes. One way to do this is to reset focus to the same field:

```foxpro
_SCREEN.ActiveForm.ActiveControl.SetFocus()
```
Since menus and toolbars don't get the focus,
`_SCREEN.ActiveForm` is still the same form as before. We just set the focus back
to the object that had it, which triggers that control's `Valid`, `LostFocus`, `When`
and `GotFocus` methods.

### You Want To Print That Where?

Letting users choose the printer for a report at runtime and
having it automatically adjust itself for that printer's settings ought to be a
piece of cake. Isn't that one of the things Windows is supposed to handle for
us? Unfortunately, VFP tries to be too smart and ends up making things a lot
harder than they need to be.

When you create a report with the Report Designer,
information about the currently selected printer and its settings is stored in
the first record of the report table (FRX). When you print the report, VFP
checks that information and uses it. If the selected printer was the Windows
default, VFP is smart enough to use whatever printer the user chose. But if the
selected printer was something else, VFP assumes that you meant it when you created
the report with that printer chosen, and it expects to print to that printer. 

Why does it behave this way? Well, we think the developers
were trying to be helpful. They figured that, if you'd gone to the trouble of
configuring a printer especially for the report, they ought to pay attention.
The problem with this is that the people using your application probably don't
even have the same printer you do. The other problem is that this is such a
non-intuitive way of arranging for special settings that we can't imagine
anyone doing it on purpose.

So how do you get VFP to print to the user's chosen printer
and honor that printer's settings? Easy&mdash;throw out the stored settings. The
information is in the Tag, Tag2 and Expr fields of the first record of the report.
Just blank 'em out. 

Our friend Brad Schulz, who knows more about printing from
FoxPro than anyone else, suggests making a copy of the report at runtime,
blanking the Tag, Tag2 and Expr fields of the copy, then stuffing the Expr
field (which is plain text in an INI-file type format) with the settings you
really want. Then, use the copy to run the report. Another friend, Rick
Schummer, is a wiz at application deployment. He uses a ProjectHook for his
projects that, when an EXE is built, automatically opens every report in the
project and blanks the necessary fields. That way, he doesn't have to worry
about forgetting this important step when he's preparing to send the
application to his client.

### But It Ran Okay in VFP 5!

Normally, the folks at Microsoft (and, before them, the
folks at Fox Software) go out of their way to make sure that, whatever they
change in a new version of FoxPro, code that ran in the old version will still
run in the new one. But in VFP 6, they broke that rule. Not only that, they did
it on purpose. Say what?!

Because the year 2000 was looming, the Fox team figured it
was about time to really make FoxPro developers aware of the bugs lurking in
their old code. So they added the `SET STRICTDATE` command to help us find
problems and to keep us from making them in the first place. When you turn
`STRICTDATE` on, VFP lets you know if any of your code contains ambiguous dates.
Great, that sounds good.

But here's the catch. By default, it's set to moderate
strictness in the development environment. That means that any date or datetime
constants that don't use the long unambiguous format (that is, \{^1958-09-01}
rather than \{9/1/58}, the latter of which could be either January 9 or
September 1, depending on what `SET DATE` is used) cause an error. (See the
Reference section for the details.)

Well, it's nice that they can find our errors for us, but
why they heck didn't they make the old way the default? Because if they had,
we'd keep going along in our misguided belief that our old code was
Y2K-compliant. They're forcing us to pay attention.

About now, you're probably wondering how you're supposed to
upgrade your users to newer versions of VFP if all your dates are going to
fail. That's easy. By default, `STRICTDATE` is set to 0 for them (that is, at
runtime), but you'll want to set it to 2 on your development machine so you can
catch and squash these bugs.

### But It Ran Okay in VFP 6!

As with VFP 6, some things were changed in VFP 7 that might
break code written in earlier versions (although that's much less likely than
the changes made in VFP 6).

A couple of changes were made to the `_DBLCLICK` system
variable. First, it no longer contains both the interval necessary for two
clicks to be considered a double-click *and* the interval during which
keystrokes will perform incremental searching (which seems like a daft
combination in hindsight). Starting in VFP 7, the latter interval is contained
in the `_INCSEEK` system variable. Second, rather than the default of 0.5 seconds
that previous versions had, `_DBLCLICK` now defaults to the value set by the user
in the Mouse Control Panel applet. That means we can now create applications
that are more respectful of the user's wishes (what a concept!). Thus, there's
very little reason for you to touch `_DBLCLICK` in your applications anymore. For
lack of a similar system setting for incremental searching, `_INCSEEK` also
defaults to the user's specified double-click setting. We recommend you add
this one to the Options dialog of your applications and let the user set it
there.

Another change is that the `Top`, `Left`, `Height` and `Width`
properties of `_VFP` and `_SCREEN` are no longer identical. The properties of `_VFP`
now reflect the entire VFP window, while those of `_SCREEN` contain the values of
the "client" area of the window, the white area of the window that
doesn't include the title bar, menu bar, toolbars, status bar, and so forth.
This is a Good Thing, since we can now determine how much actual space we have
to work in without having to adjust for the size of the title bar, menu bar,
toolbars, status bar, and so forth. However, if you have code that subtracts
these sizes from the `_SCREEN` properties, you'll end up with values that are
much too small. Be sure to look for any such code and either use _VFP instead
of `_SCREEN` or (a better idea) don't make any adjustments to the values of the
`_SCREEN` properties.

The spelling checker included with earlier versions was
dropped in VFP 7. Since you couldn't legally distribute it with your
applications, the only code this should break is developer tools. If it breaks
any client code, you need to check REDIST.TXT in the VFP home directory to see
what other files you might be distributing in violation of the VFP license
agreement!

The `CENTRAL`, `FOXCODE`, `FOXGEN`, `FOXGRAPH` and `FOXVIEW` commands
were removed in VFP 7. Since these had no place in any application and have
been obsolete for years, that shouldn't break any code.